---
number: 5
description: Q&A with Bob Summerwill, ETC Coop
date: 2021-12-21
time: 2300 UTC
location: Discord
joinLink: https://ethereumclassic.org/discord
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=acz_xQ4lXTY
hosts:
  - Istora
  - BroLal
---

## Description

Guest Bob Summerwill, Director, ETC Coop

## Agenda

- Check In, Start at 2305
- Q&A

## Stauts

- Scheduled

## Intro

- Thank you for joining us everyone
- This call is new weekly thing Tuesday where to discuss ETC and anyone is free to join, this week is special as we have Bob Summerwill, Director of ETC Coop joining us for Q&A
- Welcome to Bob, thank you for joining us
- We have collected questions from the community discord channel
- We have a lot of questions so to make sure we have time, please limit discussion
- If there is time at the end we will open up to questions from the panel

## Questions

Please add here https://discord.com/channels/223674353001168906/918734870677717052, or edit this file

Collected from ETC Discord, Grouped together:

- First, thank you for joining us Bob, how are you today?
- General thoughts on the state of ETC today? 
- How are ETC Labs / IOHK / ETC Coop doing and how would you describe the current relationship with ETC Labs / IOHK? 
- Funding
  - Does ETC needs any additional fundings?
  - How much runway do the major teams actually have?
  - What is the "bare minimum" funding needed to keep one client running?
  - What is better: 2 clients for 2 years or 1 client for 4 years?
  - what options are being taken in consideration since you agreed to withdraw support for ECIP-1098?
  - Do you think we can find a use case for community fund by the end of 2022?
  - Is Gitcoin a viable option to ensure ETC’s innovation future?
- Treasury
  - Did ETC Labs support the “sweeping mechanism”? 
  - Do you think all teams will agree to a solution in 6 months? 
  - Will future Treasury proposals be pushed for without the support of all major teams?
- ECIPs
  - Roadmap for 2022 ? 
  - Any interest from the community about ecip-1096 (don't really have to follow 1096 - I don't know that group)?
- SHA3
  - Status of sha3
  - Are the majority of miners on board with sha3?
  - Let's say (hypothetical) all things go well with development with sha3 and all miners agree (or a strong %age) as well to switch over, when would this be done?
  - Does the move to sha3 imply an ossification of the protocol and less forks and modifications afterwards?
- Future Threats
  - Confirmation times are still a problem users and investors, is there something that can be done in this regard, or do we need to wait for more hash power
  - What threats do you see for ETC and the blockchain industry for the next year? Government intervention, regulations, banks and corporations eager for control? Defi hacks?
  - What have we learn from ETHs mistakes this year?
- Marketing
  - Currently ETC coop's marketing narrative is that ETC is "perfectly suitable" and "just like ETH1 but without bloat" (which will come to ETC once popular), but by pushing the angle that ETC has a level of decentralization that cannot be matched by other platforms, making it, unlike ETH and PoS systems, uncapturable and uniquely suitible for global adoption?
- Finall
  - Any advice for the community?
  
