---
number: 13
description: Mystique Hard Fork Success, Hybrid PoW Presentation
date: 2022-02-15
time: 1500 UTC
location: Discord
joinLink: https://ethereumclassic.org/discord
youtube: HQ9IKu3PVkA
hosts:
  - Istora
  - BroLal
---

## Description

A casual voice chat to discuss ideas for ETC. All are welcome.

The ETC Discord can be joined at https://ethereumclassic.org/discord

Please join us in the #community-calls channel to ask questions or bring up topics.

## Agenda

- Mystique Hard Fork Success!
- Website review
- Henry's Presentation https://github.com/epicblockchain/whitepapers/blob/master/ETC/Hybrid_PoW/ETC%20Hybrid%20PoW%20Community%20call%202_15_22.pdf
- Open Discussion

## Spillover Topics
- Bridges vs Algo Stablecoins?
- Conference 2022?
- ETCDAO Gigs Reminder https://github.com/ETCDAO/gigs

## Status

- Completed
- Duration: 2 hours
- Attendees: > 20
- Recording: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HQ9IKu3PVkA

## Meeting Minutes

The weekly Ethereum Classic Community Call 013 was held on 2022.02.15 at 1500 UTC on Ethereum Classic Discord.

### Overview

During this meeting, the chair announced the successful implementation of the Mystique Hard Fork and informed the participants that a new version of the Ethereum Classic website will be released. Henry presented his proposals for a dual algorithm approach. Several items such as ETH &amp; ETC mining,ASIC&amp; GPU rigs, Hybrid PoW, transition plan, rebranding of Ethereum Classic in future, etc. were discussed at length. The participants shared their ideas and views, the gist of which is as under;

### Points

- **Two announcements**
  - The chair announced that the latest hard-fork ETC Mystique has been completed successfully. Thanks to everyone&#39;s hard work, it&#39;s been a smooth transition. He expressed congratulations to everyone involved and to the Ethereum Classic network.
  - The next announcement is that the Ethereum Classic website is very close to being launched. There&#39;s been work in the last month on new content concerning the significance and advantages of the Ethereum Classic. Different from the old website, the new version will focus more on the introduction and rationale for why people should be interested in Ethereum Classic. To make a better website, there will be a special call next week to invite suggestions.

- The state of ETC mining
  - **ETH VS. ETC mining:** Today, the supply chain is constrained. Henry made a comparison between ETH and ETC mining. The Ethereum hash rate has witnessed a massive increase from 400TH in July to 1000TH. However, The ETC hash rate has seen a very consistent increase from 8 TH to 25 TH. In addition, ETH has a higher hash rate mainly because it&#39;s more profitable. On a high-level comparison, ETH has a 40% more hash rate with 57% higher revenues. When June comes along, the earnings on ETC are going to drop further by another 20%. One thing needed to bear in mind is that it&#39;s the prediction for revenues not profits which vary a lot depending on many factors such as people&#39;s hardware and power rates.
  - **Reasons for low ETC hash rate:** The first reason is that ETC has lesser profits for miners compared with ETH as aforementioned. The second reason lies in the mostly older equipment on ETC. Henry compared relative Information and earnings from the various GPUs. He illustrated that the people mining ETC are mostly with the older GPUs, 4GB models, and are 4-6 years old. Typical GPU rigs have 6-10 GPU cards depending on the power supplies in the rigs. Newer GPUs earn up to 7.5x more with up to 5x greater HR.
  - **ASIC VS GPU rig (6-8 GPU):** The ASIC rigs are getting 3-10 times more performance with higher hash rate earnings. They are way more power-efficient, accounting for 5% less of expenses while GPU rigs make up 33% of expenses. The ASIC rigs are also more reliable and easier to operate, lowering the cost of hosting. Besides, the ASIC rigs have more space density utilization.

- Post Merge Mining Economics
  - **Overpopulation of GPU &amp; ETH ASICs:** As WCCTech predicts, there will be a huge overpopulation of hardware. Henry summarized GPU PoW rewards top 7 non-ETH GPU coins based on F2Pool. Henry did not list all the GPU coins because calculating all of them means a lot of work and the bottom of the top seven coins reached only $6.3 which means it doesn&#39;t contribute to the total. He believed that GPUs are going to be unprofitable and unprofitable mining will lead to the massive shutdown of hash rate, or people will liquidate hardware or look for alternatives to recover the cost.
  - **Massive population of ETH hardware:** Henry listed four types of GUPs. They are RX570 GPU, RX570 (GPU) Rig, VU37P FPGA, A10Pro (ASIC). Among them, FPGA and ASIC exceed the size of the hardware type deployed based on his calculations.
  - **Cost of operating ETC mining hardware:** According to statistics from CryptoCompare, the GPU rigs cost $630 a year while the ASIC rigs cost $710 a year. The ASIC rig is making almost four times what the GPU rig is making. When it comes to mining, a lot of miners committed to fixed contracts are paying for their power in advance. Typically, the contract period might be two years. A lot of them are financed at very high-interest rates. Meanwhile, selling used equipment can result in large losses because the ASIC rigs have no value for they can only mine ETC hash or ET hash. Therefore, the alternative is to look for other ways to recoup the money.
  - **Rig support VS ETC price:** Based on the data from F2pool, Henry stated that GPU mining is going to be unprofitable due to overpopulation. There is only one-third of ETH GPUs supported with 8x ETC. ASIC mining tends to be supportable if ETC doubles in price, but profits will be slim. It&#39;s conceivable that FPGAs and high-end GPUs may coexist with ASICs but profits will be minimal.
- Hybrid PoW Discussion
  - **Hybrid PoW for ETC (Conceptual Diagram)**: Henry split the PoW 50 / 50 between ETCHash and Keccak-256. This diagram makes the network impossible to attack because there&#39;s an equal barrier on both sides. This conceptual framework needs to be adapted for ETC because the original difficulty code on ETC should also be considered and branched to the PoW framework. It may also entail the contribution of the community to help finish that.
  - **Case study of the new KDA blockchain:** It shows how ASIC ramps on blockchains. Henry did not believe that all ASICs are evil by giving the example of Kadena(KDA). KDA ranked #9 with $230k PoW rewards daily, making itself a very profitable coin to mine. Another benefit is that KDA ramps very nicely. The hash rate followed the price of the coin. Its hash rate has experienced steady growth from 1.8 PH to 84 PH.
  - **Impact on ETC network:** Henry believed it&#39;s critical to get ahead of post merge with some security mechanism. The 50/50 split between ETCHash &amp; Keccak-256 is a critical defense against the overpopulation of ETHash hardware. ETC will be the dominant chain on Keccak 256. Based on Grin and Kadena&#39;s experiences, FPGAs &amp; newer GPUs may be more profitable mining Keccak -256 than ETCHash in the first 6-12 months. Establishing the ETC brand might also be an alternative and help ETC take over part of the ETH smart contract. The thing that matters is to have a plan ready before the merge rather than reacting to the merge.

- Q&amp;A
  - **The viability of the double algorithm:** There are equivalent to 30 million GPUs mining ETC. It&#39;s impossible to make money if one moves those 30 million from ETH to ETC as clearly evidenced on the chart (p.13). They will get dominated by ASICs. The dual approach will protect the interests of the community because it sets a place between the two algorithms and draws the balance against the overall overpopulation of hardware.
  - **Less-centralized GPU mining:** Centralization is a matter of opinion. Based on the statistics and availability, ASICs are highly centralized. If we don&#39;t do something, we will be subject to the hordes of GPUs. There will be huge overpopulation, and no one makes any money. Security and stability are at risk. For this reason, the community has to make a move. The hybrid wall builds in natural protection and builds a balance. The SHA3/ASIC can ramp again in a controlled manner. The example of Kadena shows that the new hardware will build loyalty among investors.
  - **The development of ETC/SHA3/hybrid system:** The approaches are to have both. 50/50 is a good starting point because it builds in the balance naturally. The community can decide over time whether to migrate more to SHA3. We prefer moving more to SHA3 which gives better control of the community.
  - **The definition of 50/50:** 50/50 is the number of blocks rather than the target difficulty. The approach aims to balance both algorithms. It doesn&#39;t matter how much hash rate you have on one algorithm or another. The difficulty is adjusted so that the block is 50% one algorithm, and 50% the other. There are two approaches to doing the 50/50 split. The way it works in Grin is scaling the secondary algorithm off the difficulty of the first which is a more elegant way of keeping both in check. The existing difficulty adjustment algorithm remains in place which controls based on block time. That doesn&#39;t change, but a secondary check is needed to make a balance between the ratio of primary and secondary blocks. There are some elegant approaches like Grin uses, but the goal is not to make drastic block changes. The goal is to have 50% ETC hash and 50% Keccak-256.
  - **The fairness of 50/50:** 50/50 is fair because it would not be a permanent split, but a starting split. We will let the community decide what the right strategy is. Our preference will be to slide over to Keccak. The balance is trying to figure out the best interest of the community and the industry. In other words, as the example of Kadena shows, it aims to look after the ECT and make our ecosystem happy.
  - **The rolling window:** The blocks over the rolling window are trying to be maintained, and the difficulties are adjusted accordingly. In terms of blocks, the rolling window follows the difficulty adjustment algorithm window, so that both can be in sync. In a week, half the blocks are expected to be ETCHash and half the blocks to be Keccak-256. In that week, if the blocks are not 50/50, then the algorithms wait, and difficulty is adjusted accordingly. There will always be a primary proof of work, which is the ECT hash. And that difficulty is what everyone would access by default. But there would be a second scaling factor for the second algorithm proof of work.
  - **Hash rate penetration:** Henry agreed that there are more efficient GPUs coming despite ASIC. But it doesn&#39;t matter because it&#39;s just computing purely on power. Based on the operating costs, slides 13 shows how many rigs would be supported. It&#39;s projected that if the ETC price were to climb 8 times to 60, then it would support 33% of the network. Miners don&#39;t like to operate at a loss or zero profits. So, the hash rate penetration is way below that number.
  - **GUP mining ETH hash:** There is no issue with the GUP mining ETH hash, ETC hash, or Keccak-256. The only issues are that some ASIC can&#39;t mine Keccak. There will indeed be more FPGAs coming, but there is no new mining ecosystem here.
  - **Hybrid vs. pure Keccak:** hybrid emerges as a backup solution. The hybrid is a compromise approach to secure the chain. In terms of ramping Keccak hardware, GPUs and FPGAs are capable of mining Keccak as well. This is proven by Grin. SHA3 will consume way more GPUs.
  - **The 1049 proposal:** Mining is an open business and protocols are offering incentives. There are many ways for ETC to remain open to mining after transitioning to a hybrid proof of work. 1049 was a better approach because we can implement that now, whereas the other approaches were a lot harder. ETC needs to do something to enforce security and has a path forward on its own. Hybrid is going to take a little bit longer. One proposal is to do hard work for the Keccak altogether. Some changes have already been made to integrate Keccak into the codebase.
  - **Power efficiency:** Power efficiency doesn&#39;t matter too much in this context, because it all depends on the relative hash rate. In a saturated situation, being inefficient doesn&#39;t work. Efficiency matters a lot in bitcoin. In terms of cost for acquisition and operation, the ASIC provides a much better solution than GPUs. The 1049 proposal is probably one of the best ways to secure ETC&#39;s future.
  - **The difference in competitiveness:** There&#39;s a difference in competitiveness. The security model only really works if it&#39;s most profitable. Keccak improves interoperability and the ability to do a lot of other things.
  - **The combination of FPGAs and ASICs:** There are plenty of ASIC manufacturers delivering SHA3 capabilities. IB link and Goldshell are making SHA3 capable products already. There was a small network called miner for the Islamic community. Related documentation is unavailable, but growth can be seen in that network. The increase certainly indicates the combination of FPGAs and ASICs. FPGAs are what&#39;s on the small SHA3 networks at this point.
  - **The advantages of SHA3:** The splitting 50/50 means that the group/the blockchain/ETC is immune to any inter affairs activity. The seesaw approach decided that one side can dominate. Based on the premise that 15-25 GPUs equals one FPGA, that has the impact of neutralizing a lot of GPUs.
  - **Hash rate consumption:** how many it can consume is based on operating costs. It would consume more GPUs on the SHA3 side, than on the ASIC side because SHA3 Keccak uses more computing power. Henry is unsure about what is going to happen to the GPU hash rate. But he believed SHA3 will consume more of the hash rate and make it more difficult for the older GPU. By moving to higher GPUs and higher hardware, we negate the impact of excess population of the ETC hash and ASICs which are huge amounts of hash power.
  - **Rebranding of Ethereum Classic:** The new version of the website is currently already released for those that are interested in the discord channel. There&#39;s a link on the website.

### Action Points

1. Henry will Publish ECIP Hybrid PoW by February 18.

2. Bob is going to be stepping into the champion role for the 1049 proposal.

3. ETC PoW implementation is needed ahead of the ETH2.0 merge.

4. Discussion is needed with the community on the pros and cons of taking the hybrid as a backup.

5. Difficulty checking and clients for the full implementation by the end of 2022.

6. Creation of a comprehensive document that provides links and records the opinion shared by everybody throughout time (consensus TRACKER ). 7. Announcement of the public release of the new website on this call next week on the 22nd.

8. Collection of any final edits or suggestions for the website from the community within a week.

---

## Full Transcript

```webvtt
WEBVTT

NOTE no-names

1
00:00:03.919 --> 00:00:25.269
hello and welcome to ethereum classic community calls chat that happens on the ethereum classic discord server every tuesday usually at 1500 hours utc the content of these calls is decided by the etc community if you'd like to contribute you can join us on discord at ethereumclassic.org

2
00:00:22.880 --> 00:00:44.229
discord and you'll find us in the community course channel if you'd like to help spread the good word of classic make sure you comment on this video like it subscribe share and hit the notification bell to

3
00:00:38.719 --> 00:00:52.069
etc community call number 13 on the 15th of february 2022.

4
00:00:52.079 --> 00:01:12.310
uh we have a presentation from uh henry of epic who will be taking us through his proposal on jar 3 including that uses a dual algorithm approach so we'll be going

5
00:01:10.720 --> 00:01:32.230
into a presentation that he's prepared and you can find a link to that presentation in the uh community called show notes um but before we start on on that uh we just wanted to announce that the latest hard-fought connoisseur classic mystique has been completed successfully so congratulations

6
00:01:30.720 --> 00:01:50.950
to everyone involved there and to the ethereum classic network as a whole it's been a smooth transition and that's all we can ask for so once again thanks to everyone involved uh good job announcement is that the ethereum classic

7
00:01:48.720 --> 00:02:11.029
website is very very close to being launched now um there's been work in the last month on a whole new section which is called y classic and there's a whole bunch of content that's been added to the new version of the website that will hopefully guide new people into the concepts

8
00:02:08.479 --> 00:02:30.309
of why same classic is a thing why it's useful and why it's going to be the future blockchain and generally the idea is that as um other blockchains one by one succumb to censorship and centralization then

9
00:02:28.480 --> 00:02:49.030
there will only be a handful of blockchains that are able to be sovereign grade and they will remain for eternity hopefully and i think plastic just like bitcoin is one of them so this is a kind of new thesis for ethereum classic and hopefully compared to the old side which was a little

10
00:02:47.040 --> 00:03:09.190
bit sort of not directed towards a particular idea this new version will have a very clear like introduction and rationale for why people should be interested in ethereum classic if anyone is interested in viewing a preview of the website and or would like to contribute or make suggestions and changes

11
00:03:07.040 --> 00:03:27.110
before we go live which is probably going to be maybe next week in time for the special 22 to 22 call um then please feel free i will drop a link in the chat and you're all welcome to uh have a look at that and let me know what you

12
00:03:24.560 --> 00:03:46.229
think that let me know henry

13
00:03:43.440 --> 00:04:04.710
if you're ready then unless there's uh anything else we wanted to chat before this presentation i think uh you can take the floor and just a bit of uh sort of preamble to this presentation if everyone could uh allow henry to finish the presentation

14
00:04:02.239 --> 00:04:25.830
before adding any comments um we will then jump into some uh discussion once he's completed just so we can get out uh all of the slides and then we can bring up any questions or comments about that so henry the floor is yours i'm

15
00:04:23.600 --> 00:04:43.749
having a problem connecting it's it says that i don't have enough i have reduced bandwidth jp can you throw up the can you grab the screen and throw the presentation follow

16
00:04:41.520 --> 00:05:03.270
along on the pdf and flip through that let me just uh let me just going

17
00:05:00.800 --> 00:05:22.870
to remind me to um consistently hold down push to talk i'll be like a free and have sore thumbs out know attending the meeting and um you know uh you know taking the time to to [Music] to

18
00:05:20.320 --> 00:05:41.430
learn about proof of work and uh you know how the mining homes work especially as it relates to the merge of you know ethereum 2.0 um i'm going to present a lot information today to that may be eye-opening but you know it's

19
00:05:39.360 --> 00:05:59.590
quantitative data that shows what may happen in terms of a merge and you know we'll review the what the state of the network is in addition to you know what the possible impact uh could be and then we'll talk about alternatives to to

20
00:05:56.639 --> 00:06:18.390
uh you know uh protecting the etc network jp can you pass to the next slide please so the the goals and objections today you know i kind of covered that is you know particularly i'm looking for feedback the community's feedback on you know what you think and so

21
00:06:15.840 --> 00:06:36.710
uh before we go into the presentation you know my assumptions are all based on uh sunday's data so unless noted it the data is from sunday february 13th and uh you know it's largely based on f2pu which is one of the largest pools in

22
00:06:34.479 --> 00:06:58.870
mining and you know they consolidate some of the mining data i use some other sources as well and that's noted in the presentation the presentation is uploaded to the github so you know feel free to scan through and paying me with questions and comments next slide is

23
00:07:00.720 --> 00:07:21.270
this is data from f2 from uh bit info charts you can see on the bottom that the ethereum hash rates climb consistently uh to one ter sorry 1 000 tera hashes and you can see that it's been a massive hash

24
00:07:18.560 --> 00:07:40.070
rate increase from you know from july onward you know we started the year at about 400 tara hashes and went out a thousand that's massive growth and that definitely indicates a lot of asics on the network you know especially today when you look at today's situation where the supply chain

25
00:07:37.440 --> 00:07:59.430
is very constrained and uh you know if we map the ethereum price on here as well ethereum's gone up in price which is one of the motivations for uh growing hash rate because people make more money you can see that with the addition of with additional more hardware the mining revenues

26
00:07:56.960 --> 00:08:19.189
come down and based on the information that high level information the revenue for mining nets about 4.1 cents per tera hash so i've got the link published somewhere on this and you can click here for more information it's it's on the chart actually so

27
00:08:16.319 --> 00:08:37.750
that the top one indicates the hash rate on etc you can see that the etc hash rates come up gone up from you know roughly about eight tera hatches 25 and it's been very consistent uh floating around the 25 terra hash neighborhood whereas eth

28
00:08:35.360 --> 00:08:55.670
has gone up so when you do a high level comparison uh eth has 40 percent more hash rate and that's largely because it's more profitable to mine eth eth is earning about 57 more hash rate or

29
00:08:52.480 --> 00:09:14.230
higher revenues and so you know instead of earning 2.6 cents you would earn 4.1 cents per mega hash now keep in mind that when june comes along the earnings on etc are going to drop further by another 20 so we're looking

30
00:09:11.600 --> 00:09:33.190
at if you hold today at static prices 4.1 cents versus versus 2.1 cents and i'll keep in mind that these these are revenues not not profits so you still deduct the cost of profit in there it's really hard for the

31
00:09:30.480 --> 00:09:54.949
global people to track um you know profits from the standpoint that people's hardware vary and so your profit would vary and your power rates vary as well next slide you

32
00:09:51.200 --> 00:10:12.310
know why is etc hash rate low um you know we covered it already by saying that there's more profits to be made in on eth so right now if you do it on a on a comparison using nvidia 1070 you're earning you're earning almost 90 percent more profit

33
00:10:12.320 --> 00:10:32.470
on the you know on eth than etc and you can see that on the right hand side of the chart you know i've included information from both f2pool which is the blue and uh what to mine which is included on the top i circled the indication of 80 cents profit

34
00:10:29.040 --> 00:10:49.829
versus 47 profit you know it's very interesting that when you note the overall hash rate uh according to what to mine that there's more hash rate on a nice hash on eath hash than there is on etc etc

35
00:10:49.839 --> 00:11:10.310
so you're looking at you know two just ball parking at two and a quarter times more hash rate and as i said the 15 is going to reduce the earnings even further next slide this

36
00:11:07.920 --> 00:11:29.430
is another data source i use so this one's really good because it compares all the relative information and earnings from the you know various gpus i couldn't fit it on one screen so i had to do kind of a cut split screen i've circled the areas where you

37
00:11:27.440 --> 00:11:49.509
know theorem classic we'll show ethereum classic earnings by gpu and i've separated the red you know inter on the on your left hand side of the presentation for amd and the right hand side for nvidia and so if you just compare if you just kind of take extrapolate

38
00:11:47.200 --> 00:12:07.990
where things are the people mining etc are mostly the older gpus you know probably four gigabyte models and they're roughly if you look at the age of them they're roughly between four to six years old so they've heavily roid and

39
00:12:05.680 --> 00:12:25.750
there's not a lot of new investment going in at least on that's on that side you probably see some old asics in there like the bit main e3s as well uh just as a you know just as a comparison you're looking at if you take the 1060 it's

40
00:12:24.399 --> 00:12:45.590
making on the right hand side of the screen it's making 68 cents and the top invaded gpu is making uh you know just over five dollars so you're looking at about seven and a half times uh seven and a half times earnings where the hash rate's only gone up by 5x so that

41
00:12:44.240 --> 00:13:07.030
gives you a kind of an order comparison um convert these cards to rigs you just multiply by eight as typically we use each rig has between six to ten cards depending on you

42
00:13:03.360 --> 00:13:23.590
know the power supplies in the rigs next slide i've pulled out some asics for comparison to give you an idea uh you know there are some new asics coming out uh

43
00:13:20.800 --> 00:13:42.069
from jazz minor and there's the in the silicon a11 those are hugely profitable i just if you do a high level comparison between gpu rigs and the asic rigs the asic rays are getting three to ten times more performance and they're way more

44
00:13:40.399 --> 00:14:00.949
power efficient you can look at this in terms of f2 pool in terms of the blue circle that asic rig in the middle of the chart is is the you know the cost of operating it is somewhere between three to six percent of earnings whereas on a gpu rig it's about one-third of earnings and then

45
00:13:59.440 --> 00:14:20.470
you can also note that the hash rate and earnings on gpu rig is much lower than the then the earnings uh and on a basic rig which is the chart in the middle uh there are some other benefits to to asics as well as asics are inherently more

46
00:14:18.000 --> 00:14:39.990
reliable they're easy to operate you don't have to reboot them all the time one of the big complaints about gpu rigs is they're always going down so the cost of hosting or the cost of hosting having someone look after your gpu rigs typically incurs more costs as well and then gp asic rigs are more compact so on a given shell

47
00:14:37.760 --> 00:15:02.470
space you can get more rigs in place next slide economics one more slide jp what

48
00:14:59.760 --> 00:15:21.829
could happen post-merge and i thought it was very interesting to pull an independent point of view on on what would happen this is very consistent with what epic and other industry experts view as well uh this is this this article is published by wcc

49
00:15:18.519 --> 00:15:38.949
tech which is follows the gaming and pc harvard community actively these guys are great reporters and you know they they go over a lot of the key industry issues and in particular wcc's

50
00:15:34.399 --> 00:15:55.350
been big gb gpu advocates and uh you know their big complaint about crypto mining is it's taking all the gps away from mining and this has been something that the gpu companies have been fighting in particular

51
00:15:51.920 --> 00:16:12.710
you've seen that amd and nvidia have throttled their gpus so that they're producing about half the you know half the performance on ethereum mining and this is again one of the reasons that led to lower performance uh for the gpus and higher cost operation

52
00:16:10.959 --> 00:16:32.949
as well so i've included a link in the article on the bottom uh it was published uh just before christmas and it's very it's very it covers a lot of issues we cover they haven't gone into the same economic analysis i have so i've gone to in more detail but they clearly say that it's

53
00:16:30.079 --> 00:16:51.350
unclear if post-merge any of the chains meaning other gpu blockchains can assimilate the massive inflow of additional hash rate and typically point out that the that the profit and difficulty will change dramatically in the course of uh

54
00:16:48.880 --> 00:17:10.949
you know all this all the hash rate coming on so they said as other people jump to other coins the total hash rate will increase and the difficulty will increase exponentially but the price stays the same further decreasing the profitability is all coins and they go on to to say that it could be

55
00:17:08.640 --> 00:17:28.789
10 to 20 east profits but it's actually less when you do the do the full math they didn't do the full math in honesty it takes a lot of time to calculate the impact um the side the side note here that they're predicting is that with the crash with

56
00:17:26.160 --> 00:17:48.070
the af post merge that there'll be a lot of cheap second-hand gpus available in the market and that would trigger a price crash in both new gpus and old gpus we saw in 2019 that the price of an rx dollars

57
00:17:48.080 --> 00:18:11.270
down to 40 dollars on the resale market so we expect to see the same this is bad news for for the gpu miners because you know their premise that they can sell the hardware and recoup some of their costs that way is all is kind of shattered next

58
00:18:05.360 --> 00:18:27.430
slide just as wcc predicts there will be a huge overpopulation of hardware that are refugees from etc

59
00:18:23.840 --> 00:18:45.750
h mining looking for new homes and to illustrate this point i've taken the next seven gpu friendly coins and calculated the total proof of work using f2 pool so f2 pool will publish the amount of money you

60
00:18:43.440 --> 00:19:03.669
can make on the pool on that chain per day now price has gone up about 20 since then so it you know it doesn't materially impact the conclusion just realize uh we all know there's there's a lot of volatility in crypto so these you know but all these numbers are in

61
00:19:01.760 --> 00:19:23.990
the range i've compensated for that obviously by understating the east proof of work but if you take the top seven proof of work and then you take the f2 pool project it forward to a year it's roughly about a quarter of a billion dollars and you compare that to each in terms of mining that's a 10

62
00:19:21.120 --> 00:19:42.390
billion dollars so the other coins represent less than two and a half percent of the overall um mining reward potential that eth offered so if you were to factor it down to each gpu and you know narrow it down to to the

63
00:19:42.400 --> 00:19:58.150
in terms of cost per uh yeah cost per gpu you would basically make about one dollar at one dollar per gpu that's that's not very good so how i got that number was i take 25 cents times 30.

64
00:19:54.799 --> 00:20:17.029
i believe i have to check my math but let's uh let me just two quarter of a billion dollars divided by 10 billion dollars you get 25 cents per per

65
00:20:14.080 --> 00:20:34.470
mega hash it in actuality if you go to ravencoin you'd make a little bit more but not enough to cover your power cost which is going to be around 56 on the low-end gpus so that clearly shows that the

66
00:20:32.880 --> 00:20:55.110
gpus are going to be unprofitable you might ask the question why didn't i look at the other add up all the gpu coins two reasons it's a lot of work and number two is if you look at the bottom of this of the top seven you'll see that overall it doesn't you know

67
00:20:52.320 --> 00:21:13.430
daily that that coin is making six thousand dollars so it doesn't really contribute to the total so uh you can see that gpu is gonna be unprofitable and what will happen is there'll be either a massive shutdown of hash rate or people will liquidate hardware or people look for alternatives to

68
00:21:11.200 --> 00:21:32.149
try and recover the cost next slide profile of the various types of hardware on eta on eth i've tried to project it forward

69
00:21:29.840 --> 00:21:54.470
as to what this means in terms of absolute population you know these are approximations that give that estimate what what would be the install base of each one of different profiles so if you take the top line you know we can estimate there's 33 million types

70
00:21:49.840 --> 00:22:10.149
of the rx 570 gpus you know i get that number just by taking the hash rate divided by the average the total hash rate of eth divided by the average hash rate of each one of these platforms and that's how i get the number on the right hand column now

71
00:22:10.159 --> 00:22:32.310
the rig the rig has eight gpus so that's how i get the divider and then in terms of the fpgas you know comes out to 20 to 20 million but we know there isn't 20 million fpgas out there and that's why i have a red x on on in terms of the probability in terms of

72
00:22:29.200 --> 00:22:49.430
the inner silicon a10 pros that works out to uh about 1.3 million asic rigs again we know that there isn't that many that there isn't that kind of number out there there's probably about three just over 300 000 of the rig so you know that

73
00:22:47.039 --> 00:23:07.270
might be 20 to 25 percent of the marketplace but overall if we add up the investment in eth you know it's well over 9 billion dollars that's consistent with industry goals of trying to achieve a one-year roi which is you know how much

74
00:23:05.600 --> 00:23:25.909
money can you make you want a one-year return on your investment next slide takes data from crypto compare and looks at

75
00:23:23.440 --> 00:23:46.310
how much money you would earn on a rig and uh you know what it will cost to operate and this was done at close to pretty close to today's price this was around 33 dollars so the gpu rig costs 630 operate a year and the asic rate

76
00:23:42.480 --> 00:24:03.350
costs 710 and you can see that the that the basic rig's making almost four times what the gpu rig is is making now when it comes to mining a lot of the miners committed on fixed contracts so they're paying for their power they're paying for their power in advance and

77
00:24:02.080 --> 00:24:25.029
um you know typically the contract period might be two years the a lot of the rigs are financed so uh you know this is what's called leverage you borrow money to buy rigs and then you earn on it unfortunately the crypto the crypto lenders are lending out money at very high interest rates so

78
00:24:22.080 --> 00:24:44.710
uh you know there is if the network shuts down then you know the massive need to recoup money and we know that selling used equipment will result in huge losses because the asic rigs really have no value they can only mine et they can only mine etc or

79
00:24:42.080 --> 00:25:02.630
et hash so ethan so the alternative then is you gotta look for other ways to recoup your money next slide just a heads up that you're on 20 minutes uh henry okay sorry i got another 10 minutes to go is

80
00:25:00.640 --> 00:25:20.710
that okay or go ahead okay so uh post merge what what will happen the the amount of rig supported versus etc price and i've taken the f2 pull data you

81
00:25:19.760 --> 00:25:40.470
can and then extrapolate across what would happen if each rig made zero dollars so i've taken the cost of operations divide or taken the total rewards divided by the cost of operation complicated formula but you can see the summaries on the bottom and then i've scaled etc price up by you know at

82
00:25:39.039 --> 00:25:59.909
today's price and then doubled each way along the way to 8x at the end of the gpu chart you can see you can see that at 33 dollars you can support uh you know 174 000 rigs uh and that would generate 42 tera hashes now in reality we know that

83
00:25:58.080 --> 00:26:21.190
miners need to make money so that you see there's only 26 tear hashes on the network but you know if each etc would increase 8x it would only still support 33 percent of gpus so clearly there's a big gpu overpopulation problem and the gpus will exit the

84
00:26:18.000 --> 00:26:38.870
if you remove the asic network um you know it's better for the asics so if etc price doubled we can see that would absorb would basically absorb 23 of the et of the eth hash rate and

85
00:26:35.919 --> 00:26:57.190
that would be 300 000 miners as you can see in the black chart and the hash will grow to grow to uh 23 sorry 230 tara hashes that's a so it's a big number but in actuality we know that the asics aren't

86
00:26:54.559 --> 00:27:15.110
going to be profitable they aren't going to want to make zero dollars so your active hash rate and actual population moving over will be somewhat smaller and it's conceivable that fpgas and gpus coexist but you know the profits are minimal for everyone involved so you

87
00:27:13.840 --> 00:27:34.950
know you can pick your number and say that maybe 80 percent of the community will be will have to leave they can will have to leave mining and it's more more like 90 if you just factor everything in that's kind of my opinion based on these numbers

88
00:27:29.520 --> 00:27:50.070
next slide we see a couple examples uh we use green coin as an example so grin strategy was to have a two year transition was to start with gpus

89
00:27:46.799 --> 00:28:07.190
and ucp secure the network as you can see in the blue chart start 90 and then degrade about 1 every every week until you know until it phased out and that would allow time for vendors to build asics and you know in actuality what ended up happening

90
00:28:05.840 --> 00:28:27.750
was because the algorithm was so hard to do in terms of an asic gpus mind both sides and it was actually more profitable ironically for gpus to mind to mine on the asic friendly algorithm than on the asic resisting algorithm uh you know there was a difficulty adjustment that made it diff that made it

91
00:28:24.720 --> 00:28:50.230
impossible to exploit the swings with the damping and the difficulty increases and i should note that grin did not get attacked when they were on the hybrid pow but they got attacked when they switched to single pow work

92
00:28:48.559 --> 00:29:11.269
um earl do you want to go over the slide or should i i'll take over the slide unless earl jumps in so conceptually the the hybrid proof of work

93
00:29:08.240 --> 00:29:32.950
uh this is a conceptual diagram we basically split the pow 5050 between each hash and kachek and it makes it should make the network impossible to attack because you've got equal barrier on both sides let me turn off

94
00:29:26.640 --> 00:29:47.590
my phone each side where they keep each other in balance you know if the population on etc gets too high then difficulty adjustment would compensate and then likewise

95
00:29:45.120 --> 00:30:05.510
if the you know if the hasher gets too high on check 256 again you'll see that you'll have some difficulty adjustments for either high population low population there's a lot of work needed to adapt this for et etc because obviously

96
00:30:03.200 --> 00:30:23.430
we have to take into account the original difficulty code on etc and then branch it over to each to each proof of work you know that's being looked at now and we'll need the we'll need the contribution of community to help finish that obviously the clients

97
00:30:21.039 --> 00:30:42.389
are going to be a big part of this movement but it shows the potential ramp it shows how asics ramp on blockchains nowadays

98
00:30:40.159 --> 00:31:02.230
there's inherent belief in the community that asics are evil and you know they jump in hoard all the rewards attack the networks uh but you know if you look at kadena which is the number nine ranked blockchain in terms of rewards it's a very prop it's a very profitable uh

99
00:31:00.080 --> 00:31:20.549
coin to mine but it's all it also ramped very nicely the red line on the chart shows the growth in hash rate and so it started the network started at about two peta hashes and it ramped to

100
00:31:17.279 --> 00:31:37.909
84 peta hashes and you can see that the prices the price is linked in gray and that hash rate followed you know price of the coin now obviously you can't turn off hash rate once you've made the investment in in the hardware but uh you

101
00:31:36.000 --> 00:31:59.909
know in this case the it was very profit of mine so the hash rate kept growing and there's a lag factor between placing your order for rigs and receiving your rigs the that that lag factor might be anywhere from one month to four a month depending on how supply constrained the supply chain is this

102
00:31:57.519 --> 00:32:19.830
instance the fpgas coexisted if you look at the bottom chart that shows the six miners that are available and the two vendors and you can see the dates that you know one launched with the with the with the network and then you know we saw five other ones come in you can see that the history of performance is

103
00:32:17.360 --> 00:32:38.950
that hash rate on the rigs improved 5x as well over the course of time and uh you know what you what you see as well is that these miners new miners are committed to the community and the network and we will project that the same thing would happen it could check that you'd see a couple of vendors jump in

104
00:32:35.919 --> 00:32:56.070
produce rigs you know within course of zero to you know to 12 months and you know they've been orderly ramped up probably more hash rate because the you know etc is a bigger coin next

105
00:32:52.240 --> 00:33:13.509
slide we think it's critical to get ahead of the post merge in the merge of each 2.0 with some security mechanism we know that there's overpopulation of hardware

106
00:33:11.360 --> 00:33:34.870
my data is you know i present a lot of data you can also look for your own and but it's not rocket science this will happen it's a question of the of the impact of what what this overpopulation of hardware

107
00:33:28.720 --> 00:33:48.789
means on the merge kachek is that etc will be the dominant chain you know on kaczak and it's always good to be the only

108
00:33:45.760 --> 00:34:06.470
to be the biggest player on a chain and have a pow for yourself as opposed to being shared if you see an attacks multiple times or disruptions from you know other people because of the you know not controlling the hash rate and

109
00:34:03.120 --> 00:34:23.190
the power now fpgas and newer gpus maybe profitable mining could check but you know that depends on how much hash rate comes in and i just base that on grin and kadena long term the gps won't make money uh

110
00:34:20.800 --> 00:34:40.950
we talked about establishing the etc brand you know as an alternative to to eth and uh can having your own proof of work it might be another good way to help reposition the brand and you know really help

111
00:34:36.720 --> 00:34:59.030
etc take you know take over part of the e-smart contract and token you know um token success so you know the net message here is to have a plan ready before the merge rather than reacting to the merge in case

112
00:34:56.240 --> 00:35:16.470
something negative happens so next steps next slide pow by friday on our github and then post it to to discord we

113
00:35:13.680 --> 00:35:35.270
think that it's going to take between seven to nine months of development to complete and you know we need to do a lot of work on difficulty checking and the clients need to be involved our recommendation is that the primary plan should be 1049 because 1049 is easier to do the code is done and we consider

114
00:35:32.960 --> 00:35:55.109
hybrid as backup and i put to discuss here with the community on the pros and cons you know one are the others needed to secure etc's future and our recommendation is to move to pow implementation ahead of the merge thanks

115
00:35:53.200 --> 00:36:31.510
for your time and you know welcome your comments and discussion that was very informative thank you any

116
00:36:09.440 --> 00:36:31.510
uh

117
00:36:09.440 --> 00:36:31.510
comments

118
00:36:09.440 --> 00:36:31.510
or

119
00:36:09.440 --> 00:36:31.510
questions

120
00:36:35.280 --> 00:37:05.670
uh make

121
00:36:36.160 --> 00:37:05.670
questions

122
00:36:36.160 --> 00:37:05.670
in

123
00:36:36.160 --> 00:37:05.670
english

124
00:36:36.160 --> 00:37:05.670
if

125
00:36:36.160 --> 00:37:05.670
possible

126
00:37:07.599 --> 00:37:48.390
spanish and i translate mr crazy very bad sorry sorry hey

127
00:37:50.880 --> 00:38:12.790
what he's saying is that uh a double algorithm with um three and four and another gpu

128
00:37:58.720 --> 00:38:18.790
is not the way path is because the

129
00:38:17.200 --> 00:38:53.670
same will happen the the the sha-3 side is going to have a6 and they're going to out-compete the gpu side of the algorithm so the gpu miners

130
00:38:29.680 --> 00:38:53.670
will

131
00:38:56.079 --> 00:39:16.630
what use i showed on slide 13 the one the one with the post merge uh that gpus won't be to compete anyways so because there are because there are equivalent of 30 of 30 million gpus mining

132
00:39:14.720 --> 00:39:36.390
etc when you move those 30 million over to et from eth to etc none of them will make any money and you know that's clearly evidence on the chart on page 13 on the red side yes they will get dominated by basics so if you

133
00:39:34.240 --> 00:39:56.710
look if you move over to the black side of the chart on page 13 to survive and make money so it's basically comes down to survival of the fittest now the only if the gps could make money then you know

134
00:39:53.119 --> 00:40:14.790
this this limits the the sha-3 wall limits the ability to for e not have the eth asics overrun the network and so what we see is we see that the dual approach

135
00:40:12.800 --> 00:40:41.360
will protect the interest of the community because it sets a wall in place between the two algorithms and draws a balance against the overall overpopulation of hardware yes

136
00:40:29.119 --> 00:41:23.190
that is right it

137
00:41:20.960 --> 00:41:42.309
doesn't make sense to have the double um the the hybrid system because the sha-3 side would win anyway eventually but what he's really saying um is that he thinks that there shouldn't be any cha 3 or sha 256 that etc

138
00:41:39.920 --> 00:42:01.109
should stay with gpus because he believes that gpu mining is less centralized that's that's the first opinion and the second opinion is that we shouldn't go to my to hybrid well centralization is a matter of opinion

139
00:42:01.119 --> 00:42:21.430
you take my black chart and you know you compute the numbers and you look at the availability of the eth asics it's fairly it's highly centralized in any case the only people that can really afford asics nowadays are new investments coming in the if

140
00:42:18.400 --> 00:42:39.670
we don't you know if you don't move if we don't do something we are subject to the hordes of gpus so huge overpopulation no one make any money uh you know security stability is at risk you have to i think the community has to make

141
00:42:36.960 --> 00:42:57.910
a move the wall the hybrid wall builds in a natural protection uh building a balance i showed you that the shaw three that asics can ramp again you know in a controlled fashion when you flip the cadena aside and uh you know that builds loyalty

142
00:42:55.520 --> 00:43:17.190
because it's new hardware coming in that people have invested interest whereas the whereas the eth hash side and the et etc side is all about trying to recoup investment and so that builds that's no longer a loyalty you've seen the people jump

143
00:43:15.119 --> 00:43:36.550
back and forth between networks and that shows less loyalty and less stability we can take this offline and i'm happy to answer questions by in discord it might be easier to communicate that way rather than the gaps in translation but you know i think this is in the best interest

144
00:43:33.920 --> 00:43:54.309
of the community to have a proof of work algorithm that can be supported rather than the interest of a few people thank you henry epic so now i have a question of my own so the first question whether we have to migrate away from the current etc hash or

145
00:43:52.000 --> 00:44:13.270
not why not let's not talk about that but let's talk about what is the hybrid i just want to understand if your your your idea guys is more or less like green like to have both um to have gpu first all this slack that is going

146
00:44:09.119 --> 00:44:30.150
to be left over after ath migrates then comes to etc and then slowly everybody migrates to sha-3 is it like a gradual thing that you're looking for or just to stick with a hybrid system and betting that you're going to have some

147
00:44:26.800 --> 00:44:48.470
gpus and some asics well well uh so the approach is to have both you're correct it's um you know we're suggesting we start at 50 50 which basically builds in the balance uh naturally the community can decide over time whether you migrate more to you

148
00:44:46.800 --> 00:45:08.150
know more to shaw three you know we prefer moving more to shaw three i think that gives better control to the community but you know 50 50 is a good starting point in terms of i ask what the 50 is is that number of blocks or some target difficulty how does it divide the network i

149
00:45:06.000 --> 00:45:28.630
think it's target difficult uh the correct answer it's the number of blocks so what you use in the grin approach is to balance both algorithms it doesn't matter how much hash rate you have on one algorithm the other um difficulty is adjusted so that the block emissions are fifty percent one algorithm

150
00:45:24.720 --> 00:45:45.670
and fifty percent the other in the situation where you end up having a lot of eta cash rate come over they will only still be 50 of the network i i read the white paper earlier today and it mentioned there were two approaches

151
00:45:42.000 --> 00:46:02.069
to doing this 50 50 split and as you've mentioned one of them is to have two separate difficulty adjustments one for each algo but there was another suggestion that i didn't quite understand so could you explain that one um the way it works in grin is they scale

152
00:45:59.760 --> 00:46:20.309
the secondary algorithm off of the difficulty of the first it's just a more elegant way of keeping both in check the existing difficulty adjustment algorithm remains in place which controls based on block time so that doesn't change but then you have to

153
00:46:17.520 --> 00:46:40.550
secondary check where you attempt to balance between the ratio of primary and secondary blocks so i believe that's a more elegant approach that grin uses [Music] the code base itself needs to be looked at carefully so that we can implement this change but the goal is not to make drastic block

154
00:46:36.720 --> 00:46:57.430
changes in terms of time for etc and the repository look like in practice from a for example in the application layer point of view so would there be

155
00:46:54.839 --> 00:47:15.829
let's say it's every if it's 50 50 would this be every other block or would it be like 10 blocks one hash then 10 blocks another hash uh it's looked over a period of time just like a rolling window and

156
00:47:13.760 --> 00:47:34.309
during that window you want to keep the blocks in check the way mining works it's too difficult to do one than the other as you mentioned just now the system becomes gameable um people kind of load up on the algorithm that comes up next and prepares for it so over a rowing average the goal is to have

157
00:47:33.040 --> 00:47:54.150
50 etc hash and 50 to check of how many blocks per era in terms of like how long because there's a pos there's a possibility that miners can just switch to

158
00:47:51.839 --> 00:48:13.430
a different chain when it's not the time to mine uh s hash or sha 3 on etc so how how does that factor in and does that really change much then if mine an eth hash block but if

159
00:48:11.359 --> 00:48:32.309
you know when to mine then it doesn't really change things like that does it um so with the rolling window approach um if you leave and you decide you have uh you could track hardware and you want to leave to go find somewhere else the difficulty of could check blocks will actually

160
00:48:32.319 --> 00:48:54.069
in decrease and it'll be easier to find blocks so there is no really goal to game the system that way um when you do things um similar to digibyte and other coins that have done multiple proof-of-work where they choose which algorithm comes next you end up with a situation as you mentioned where

161
00:48:52.000 --> 00:49:12.390
you can game the system this one is the blocks of a rolling window are trying to be maintained and difficulties are adjusted accordingly like in terms of number of blocks difficulty

162
00:49:09.839 --> 00:49:30.870
adjustment algorithms window so that both can be in sync just is that that's like a weekly i can't remember off the top of my head exactly how long it is i haven't looked at the code for quite a while i believe it's still weekly um so

163
00:49:29.359 --> 00:49:49.750
that would be the window where you're trying to look at the block targets week of mining eth hash then it switches over to a week of mining char three roughly um no during that week you would want half the blocks to be attached and half the blocks to be to

164
00:49:47.440 --> 00:50:07.589
check so we're not ping-ponging back and forth at all in that week if the blocks are not 50-50 then the algorithm's weight or difficulty we would adjust it accordingly i see but it's it's more like probabilistic so it might be that you get one week that's 90

165
00:50:05.520 --> 00:50:13.670
percent at hash because the difficulty is not adjusted properly but then it will readjust next week and hopefully it's 50.

166
00:50:13.680 --> 00:50:35.030
is that one of them correct over time it would approach your goal this allows for the case of influx of hash rate coming in and out it has been modeled if you look at tari a monero side chain they've done a lot of modeling regarding how

167
00:50:32.720 --> 00:50:53.270
fast the difficulty can be damped and adjusted contract that understands the concept of difficulty um how how would it be queried and would there be like two different difficulties that you're

168
00:50:52.079 --> 00:51:13.430
looking at for each hashing algorithm of work which is etc hash and that difficulty is what everyone would access by default but there would be a secondary scaling factor for the second algorithm proof of work

169
00:51:14.720 --> 00:51:35.270
explaining that um first of all i'd like to thank henry a lot for for this for all this work he did for compiling all this information so that we finally have some some numbers

170
00:51:33.200 --> 00:51:53.990
we can base our discussion on and watch us some some very vague impressions um so this is really good and also i appreciate that this must have taken quite quite quite some time to do all this and the

171
00:51:50.800 --> 00:52:13.670
numbers that he presents um are pretty much consistent with what i have i've done some some similar calculations not of everything but of some aspects of it so that's good so far um a few comments on on some technical things first of all um the

172
00:52:09.280 --> 00:52:31.270
example of the amd rx 570 is it's not very in this this car is not a great example for poor efficiency because it was only about it needs about five joules per mega hash and you can do better with gpus for example

173
00:52:27.040 --> 00:52:48.390
the the 30 70 or 30 80 they only only need two and a half joule per megahertz so the twice is power efficient which brings them much closer to asics in terms of power efficiency basically they're in the range of the of the less power efficient

174
00:52:46.400 --> 00:53:07.030
asics already so the gap between gpus is not that great also in general um the the main problem is not really competition between a6 and gpus if we talk about the general influx of hash rate but even

175
00:53:04.400 --> 00:53:28.630
if we completely ignore the a6 the gpu to gpu competition will already be be quite bad and the survival of the fittest will happen there anyway so this doesn't really change that and um on slide 13 um

176
00:53:24.240 --> 00:53:45.349
there's an estimate that um that ethereum classic mining profitability would be sufficient for about a third of the ethereum hash rate um that's a bit misleading because first of all we can expect that roughly half of the

177
00:53:43.200 --> 00:54:04.549
hash rate will go elsewhere because gpus can also mine other coins and for instance raven is in terms of profitability is roughly comparable to ethereum classic and a few other algorithmic coins that [Music] that gpu

178
00:54:01.920 --> 00:54:22.069
miners could go to so we can expect that about half of the of the remaining hash rate will go to go to other coins not to ethereum classic furthermore i mean it's obvious that the situation will not be great for for inefficient uh gpus so

179
00:54:22.079 --> 00:54:42.789
we can absolutely expect that a significant number of gpu miners will stop mining because it will just not be profitable at least not in a for for a long time and uh but there are better ways for them to to use the equipment um

180
00:54:39.440 --> 00:55:01.330
frank's for example to sell it so you can expect that that's maybe a third or maybe half of the of the available hash rate will go away and then the rest will be split roughly evenly i guess between firm classic and uh raven and other coins so

181
00:54:59.280 --> 00:55:20.549
then we will only have um [Music] we will only only need to absorb something like 25 of the theorem hash rate which is below that that threshold um of what of the maximum that um ethereum classic could

182
00:55:18.559 --> 00:55:39.109
handle so it doesn't look all that bad if you consider where the hashbrowns will really go and talking about uh what gpu miners can do to today is i mean if they already see that the equipment will not be profitable then

183
00:55:35.680 --> 00:55:57.990
they should start selling knots and not wait until the prices have collapsed because everybody is selling so obviously if you if you have a big gpu then you should do them do the math and see if well he could he could mine till the very last day you can also bet on uh on the

184
00:55:55.359 --> 00:56:16.630
fear merge to get postponed again and again basically some people may think that it will never happen um i think this is a bit unrealistic but everybody is entitled to their to their own predictions but if if if people expect that they will get in trouble

185
00:56:16.640 --> 00:56:37.270
when the merge happens and this flood of gpu for gpus get thrown into the market and then they should obviously try to sell before that so at the moment the market is still good for jeep for use gpus so it's uh so we're only talking about a scenario

186
00:56:35.040 --> 00:56:57.589
when when people first of all have made the mistake of having a lot of gpus that might uh on might not have it might not have been a good idea to invest in into them so late and uh then they compound this by making the second mistake of not selling them when the

187
00:56:54.960 --> 00:57:18.309
wireless selling is still good so uh yeah sure if this can happen but it's it may not be the um that we should worry about too much okay yes warner thanks for your comments um can

188
00:57:16.480 --> 00:57:37.430
i answer this one first because you've got too many questions i'm going to forget the answers okay okay all right so uh i'm glad you agree with most of the analysis i want to clarify a couple things um you know i agree that the there are more efficient gpus coming you'll

189
00:57:34.400 --> 00:57:55.430
see that or more efficient gpus on the network just like there's more efficient asics on the network i tend to use kind of the the common product so you know i use the a10 pro asic instead of the high-end jazz miners and i use the the amd common

190
00:57:53.440 --> 00:58:04.390
ones as opposed to the latest and greatest irrespective of that it doesn't matter when you look at jp can you throw up my my chart on slide 13.

191
00:58:01.520 --> 00:58:22.390
it doesn't matter because i'm just computing purely on power so i've taken you know irrespective of whether it's the it's a 30 90 or a you know 570 i

192
00:58:19.680 --> 00:58:41.349
assume that the gpu rig will use 1200 watts and so based on operating based on 600 operating a rig and based on uh you know 300 000 a day proof of work after the fifteen you know i get i convert to the equivalent hash rate

193
00:58:39.440 --> 00:59:00.230
it so you know what i said is that based on the operating costs this is this is how many rigs would be supported which you can see circled in red is the 174 000 rigs that could be a little bit higher um but you know obviously the the

194
00:59:00.240 --> 00:59:21.109
the 30 90 consumes more power as well so you know you get an you get a number of uh four percent uh penetration based on 33 dollars so plus or minus uh please don't make the mistake that i said that the etc network would support 33

195
00:59:18.160 --> 00:59:40.309
of the hash rate it won't uh i just gave you a projection that says if the etc price were to climb eight times to 260 then it would support 33 percent of the network and we also need to keep in mind that miners don't like to operate at a loss so or at zero profit so the

196
00:59:38.160 --> 00:59:59.990
hash rate penetration is way below that number um so you know you could look at today let's say let's say that let's say that the 30 90 rigs were out there in big volume you know it could support five six percent of the overall uh hash rate on eth but when you flip over

197
00:59:57.040 --> 01:00:20.950
the a6 a6 destroy them and if i factor in the impact of the jazz minor and the more efficient ones like the lindsay miners and the jazz miners then you know it doesn't look good for gpus they what's left what's left on 300 000 per day proof of work will be all consumed by

198
01:00:15.440 --> 01:00:36.470
asics well um yeah but still um you still have to have of the problem even if you eliminate the a6 the gpu the gp competition will be crushing so uh agreed

199
01:00:34.720 --> 01:00:54.950
on that i know that's about the four percent that's what the four percent number says yeah so in any anyway um um this is this whole discussion um is i think it's it's it's quite relevant beyond

200
01:00:52.160 --> 01:01:12.870
the discussion of the of the cake um shaft repo and i wonder whether this shouldn't this this shouldn't be kind of separated from this because this is something that that ethereum classic will face anyway no matter

201
01:01:10.000 --> 01:01:31.670
what is what is decided on the issue of an algorithm change namely what happened when the when the merge happens and that's why that's why i showed you the impact before you know we didn't really yes most of the presentation talking about the impact on the network jp can you flip

202
01:01:29.920 --> 01:01:50.870
two slides again so i can show i can answer the first question that warner had available um total available uh you know rewards on the other coins the

203
01:01:48.319 --> 01:02:08.950
problem warner uh is that there's not enough rewards i need the coins to support gpu mining if i add up the next seven as i showed you in the chart i only get uh 250 million proof of work a year and so when you factor that to the number of gpus out there you're making an

204
01:02:06.000 --> 01:02:28.710
equivalent 25 cents a tara hash which is which is or sorry 25 cents a mega hash which is not very good and make a point i i don't think there's many people that are like disagreeing with your premise that there will be a flood of asics and uh

205
01:02:26.000 --> 01:02:47.670
gpu miners that want to made homeless basically like i think that's a given so i think uh one did you want to finish your point um that basically yeah regardless of what happens whether it's if the merge is going to happen it's going

206
01:02:44.319 --> 01:03:04.390
to be a problem regardless right that uh i think this this could be some uh that is the information regarding the merge and uh and the floods that we will follow it that's that's something that should be of interest of general interest

207
01:03:01.119 --> 01:03:21.910
and maybe this could be worked into into a white paper that just focuses on that issue so that's also members in the in the edc community can get and get an idea of what is likely on the horizon because all this is fairly technical so a

208
01:03:20.000 --> 01:03:41.190
lot of people it may not be entirely clear what's happening and it's not something that happens only to that will happen only to 3m classic but it will happen to all the all the other um coins in the in the etihad family uh like kalisto ubiqui and so on and it will also happen to

209
01:03:37.599 --> 01:03:59.109
the coins that have gpu mineral algorithms that are not that that are different from ets so that's that's a basically uh almost an interesting industry right um effect that is uh that the merge will happen so i think it's uh it would be good to put this into perspective

210
01:03:56.960 --> 01:04:17.510
make people aware of what's going to happen and also make it clear that this is not a shortcoming of edc uh but it's something that will hit almost everyone and good position if we compare the numbers with

211
01:04:14.960 --> 01:04:36.630
all the others who are far far worse there are magnitudes more vulnerable to anything bad that can come out of this so i think there's an opportunity to put us into interpret into perspective and also make sure that we don't get it we don't get nasty things in the quest okay but now back to the to the presentation

212
01:04:34.400 --> 01:04:56.069
um then the discussion about the about transition scenarios which have transitions that have already happened one is grin and there my comment would be that queen is extremely weak they made the transition

213
01:04:53.359 --> 01:05:16.789
basically after green had already crashed and was held and had almost completely stopped moving uh moving money around the transaction volume had swapped dramatically before they they made this uh this transition so it's

214
01:05:12.960 --> 01:05:33.349
not really a great example because for an attacker there's not too much to get from gwyn so they wouldn't pick a complex scenario where they have to make a lot of effort to figure out how to game it um and so basically a coin that's that's almost worth

215
01:05:31.920 --> 01:05:53.910
nothing uh if he doesn't get a get attacked then well yeah maybe it just wasn't worth the effort so it's this is this is not those worked indicates that the mechanisms were not uh tripping over their own feet which is good but it doesn't doesn't prove that it couldn't be attacked and the cadena example

216
01:05:51.359 --> 01:06:12.150
um i think this shows a ramp up from a from a new echo of a new ecosystem so the the the coin and the mining infrastructure they they grew they both they ramped up together and again the the theorem classic situation is

217
01:06:10.559 --> 01:06:32.069
very different because the proposal is to transition the whole existing ecosystem so you basically have a fully developed ecosystems a fully developed developed ecosystem with a lot of money in it but you reset the the the mining infrastructure and you have to rebuild it and

218
01:06:28.640 --> 01:06:52.789
if we look at this 9 billion us dollar ethereum mining equipment uh that henry mentioned then if you assume that let's say half of it will stop mining because it will not it will no longer be profitable it may be whatever

219
01:06:50.480 --> 01:07:10.870
so maybe half of it goes away then maybe the other half goes to other coins because they have well if if you assume that the market splits more or less evenly based on what is there in terms of uh mining profits that are available and that

220
01:07:10.880 --> 01:07:31.829
is the dominant coin though so wouldn't all the mining come to etc if that's where the most money is it would never be even uh no the the thing is that for gpus they have the choice that they can also also go to raven for example and it seems that wavelet if you're in classical roughly roughly equal so and even

221
01:07:29.760 --> 01:07:51.510
if and if there's additional pressure from from a6 can only mine abc then plus a few very minor coins um then there might even be more gpus moving over to to raven not just to balance that so we could expect to from

222
01:07:47.760 --> 01:08:09.430
the from those nine billions that could that go better currently in the film classic to maybe two billions would then end up becoming part of the fem classic mining infrastructure and we have to contrast

223
01:08:07.440 --> 01:08:29.269
this with starting a new mining ecosystem i mean these two billions they're a fairly solid basis for anchoring the value of that of the coin in order in order to to beat the the the available hash rates on on a vm classic

224
01:08:26.719 --> 01:08:48.149
you have to match this in this investment now if you start if you start from zero then you need to need to invest a considerable amount of money to to match this and especially as soon as s says purpose build a64 for kcac enter the market then they will vibe our gpus so

225
01:08:48.159 --> 01:09:09.669
the um there is no issue with the gpu mining east hash etc after cac the only issues are these east asics can't mine cak so the gpus will be fine gpus will move over

226
01:09:06.880 --> 01:09:27.030
yes there will be fpgas coming but there is no new mining ecosystem here unprofitable as soon as as more efficient chips and the difference is much larger on the keg sides than it is on the on the

227
01:09:27.040 --> 01:09:48.309
on the ath side on the ether side if you if you buy a power efficient gpu at the moment it's about half it's it's a quarter the power efficiency of of the most power efficient asic miner and this the um i think i think at the

228
01:09:46.080 --> 01:10:06.870
moment the chest and maybe the silicon a11 is uh on top there um but the other way at least suggest that just mine is also very expensive so even not expensive i have four in my basement and uh they're on fire sale right now so they're trying to sell as fast as possible

229
01:10:06.880 --> 01:10:28.709
so i don't think that should then just i'm talking about the perfect price which is still very high and so in any case i mean the my point is that you have a factor of four between a decent gpu and the top of the

230
01:10:25.199 --> 01:10:46.229
line a6 and for the lesser a6 you you're looking at something a factor of two or even less so the gap is very narrow if you do this if you compare this with a situation with cac on on gpus versus asics then you have a gap

231
01:10:44.560 --> 01:11:04.870
of several orders of magnitude so it's a completely different scenario can you compare those two okay and um they're fresh grin agreed with you low hash rate um you know it's not worth commenting on other

232
01:11:01.920 --> 01:11:23.430
than the that was an example of a hybrid proof of work working uh number two about different coins migrating i think if you flip back to page 10 you'll see that raven corn is only only 77 million proof of work so that can only absorb so many asics if you divide the cost

233
01:11:21.679 --> 01:11:41.990
of operation of the course of a year you'll get you'll get uh you know maybe supporting a hundred thousand gpu rigs so again that's a small part of the overall uh available hash rate we've got too much hash power out there so when you add

234
01:11:39.840 --> 01:12:02.390
the total proof of work across a quarter of a million dollars a quarter of a billion dollars divide by your cost of operation take 600 or a thousand dollars a year you quickly get the fact that it's overpopulated none of those other coins will absorb any of the additional hatch rate uh your and then there was a third point about

235
01:11:59.760 --> 01:12:20.630
kadena ramping rigs we used an example of what a ramp on a new proof of work would look like cadena was an orderly ramp shaw three slash kachek would be treated as a new algorithm people would jump in and they'll see that you know there's a potential to make a hundred million

236
01:12:18.480 --> 01:12:39.590
dollars you can expect on a one-year roi that there be a hundred million dollars worth of infrastructure go in over the course of time so that was really an example of how you know people would invest in a blockchain and keep it orderly and the motivation there would be to be consistent

237
01:12:36.719 --> 01:12:59.590
law to the network whereas in when you've got devastating hardware uh hash rate you would you may do something nefarious or you or somehow the change would this would the change in economics would cause disruption in some form or fashion and

238
01:12:56.400 --> 01:13:17.510
you know we've seen this in you know you've seen this on s9s where you know people were dumping s9s for twenty dollars and now people are trying to buy back s9s that's probably a bad example because those those s9 started to make money two years later but

239
01:13:12.800 --> 01:13:35.430
it shows a consistent ram um about about slide 10 but i don't i don't mean to need to say that those other coins will absorb the order the hash rate but the thing is that um hash rate that cannot find a place where it

240
01:13:32.560 --> 01:13:53.510
can be used profitably will inevitably go away eventually and so so we don't need to be so for for look with looking at the distribution of the of the hash rate that will remain um we don't need to look at the hash rate that has that has that will have will have

241
01:13:51.679 --> 01:14:11.910
to go away either way so i'm only concerned about the split so and uh if you're in classic and waving very comparable then you have also ergo and so on so it would seem that roughly half or a little bit less than half of the hash rate that will remain um

242
01:14:11.920 --> 01:14:32.790
profitable we'll go to a film classic that's that's all i'm saying there i'm i'm not making i'm not trying to imply that all the all the hashtags will find that place we can solve the math on that one and post it as a after you

243
01:14:30.719 --> 01:14:52.550
know as a result on github um okay okay um i'm almost finished well my biggest concern in any case is that all this describes how the how such has such

244
01:14:50.560 --> 01:15:12.149
an algorithm change could help to lessen the effect of the of the flood that follows after the after the merge and we can we can discuss of whether it will actually help and we will make things worse and to what extent it will help and so on but uh in any case uh the merge

245
01:15:09.520 --> 01:15:32.149
is currently predicted for mid for the middle of this year and it's i mean basically everybody's almost everybody seems to agree that this will probably not it will probably not slip a lot this time because i mean eventually they have to have to do it they have been talking about

246
01:15:29.120 --> 01:15:51.189
pos a lot for a very long time and a lot of other coins have been inspired by this and have have gone to pos so eventually if ethereum will have to show that they that's they can be trusted and that they mean to do what they were saying so there are a

247
01:15:48.800 --> 01:16:11.030
lot of pressure to do it plus it seems that the f they have progressed too well enough that that doesn't they don't they don't seem to seem to be too many uh major blocks in there so basically we can expect either to happen on time or maybe a bit later this year but

248
01:16:08.320 --> 01:16:30.390
in any case the when i look at the schedule for this proposed switch to hype to hybrid mining this would be this would start in early 2023 yet in the best case and then there would be a long transition period or for switching from between the algorithms i guess i mean any

249
01:16:28.159 --> 01:16:50.470
henry you would you said it would take maybe a year for a 63 to appear um so this would probably also have to be however the time for the time frame of the transition period so basically at the time the all the the merge happens and the flood and the hashed

250
01:16:47.120 --> 01:17:07.510
flood wave rolls over the crypto ecosystems um at this time this this hybrid will either not be deployed yet or if i mean if you assume that that you that we wanted to do that it would not be deployed

251
01:17:05.360 --> 01:17:27.189
yet or if it is deployed it will be in its early stages where all the effects of the of the overload of gpu capacity will still hit it with the full force so the the gpu to gpu competition will just be as bad as as it is with current

252
01:17:25.120 --> 01:17:45.510
uh okay i agree that hold there and i'll answer the question so in terms of hybrid versus pure cachecheck i think that's why we recommend that 1049 is a better solution because it's almost ready to go the hybrid is a backup

253
01:17:43.120 --> 01:18:03.750
solution if you look at my slides i didn't take the time to go into it but you know thank you for pointing out why the you know why 1049 is a better proposal you know the hybrid is a compromise approach which gives both groups equity and you

254
01:18:01.920 --> 01:18:22.870
know is another way to secure the chain in terms of in terms of ramping to check hardware you'll see there's that gpus are gpus and fpgas are clearly capable of mining uh to check as well and you know that's why the green example's so good because it

255
01:18:20.640 --> 01:18:41.910
shows that gpus jumped over to the other algorithm just jumped over to the asic friendly algorithms to support it in this case we know there's a lot of xilinx c50 chips out there boards out there which is the vu 37p product i referred to we know there's over 200 000 units out there

256
01:18:40.640 --> 01:19:02.709
mining uh mining eth hash and that could come over at 15 15 to 17 giga hashes per you know per fpga and secure the network that way if there's a flood of gpus that can mine sha-3 then why is the sha-3

257
01:18:58.800 --> 01:19:21.030
site immune to the flood problem because it balances right so you've got the you've got you've got the you got to balance because the gpu the sha-3 would consume way more gpus than eath hash why and you've got the fpgas coming in and

258
01:19:18.640 --> 01:19:41.030
negating a lot of that gpu advantage because when you compare 1070 i think that's that's uh you know 700 mega hashes on shaw three and the c50 which is the fpga just talked about is 15 to 17 gigahashes so you're consuming uh

259
01:19:37.679 --> 01:19:58.070
you know probably about 25 gpus that way so it's it's a good balanced offset it's just more compute power it's also so it's going to be half the block reward right of what we have now um on char three assuming assuming the a6 side sorry the if

260
01:19:55.840 --> 01:20:17.910
the f hash side is saturated by a6 which seems like what you're suggesting is going to happen then all of the other gpus will be able to mine sha 3 and only share 3 and they'll be half the prop chord right because it's split so isn't the problem worse like that no because it just if you work the ratios

261
01:20:15.360 --> 01:20:35.590
out then you know if you say that one if you say that one gpu is equal to or sorry 25 gpus equals one fpga then you know the the visitor number quickly absorbs a lot of gpus but does it absorb enough compared to the whole uh network

262
01:20:34.320 --> 01:20:55.590
of what's on ether at the moment no and uh you know hopefully with the but then you have so it turns on the transition strategy so you know it's a way to help the but i think it absorbs enough that the gpus won't you

263
01:20:53.040 --> 01:21:13.430
know the gpus can't operate profitably you can only the people mine as a business so you know inevitably if the hash rate is is high enough then you know you won't try and disrupt the network and you can only lose money over a certain point of time they would probably

264
01:21:11.360 --> 01:21:36.229
hang on a bit hoping the price would increase they'd sell off part of their equipment and uh you know the hybrid would negate uh the some of the hash rate that is attributable to a6 so it's it's you know it's a compromise but you know it's probably the best compromise in terms of keeping

265
01:21:30.639 --> 01:21:50.870
both sides happy question if if i can't uh open

266
01:21:46.639 --> 01:22:08.470
business and protocols are offering incentives uh for that my question is how can etc remain open to mining if we transit to a hybrid proof-of-work

267
01:22:06.080 --> 01:22:29.270
where apart a big part a big chunk of mining business right we are talking about millions of asics we limit them right we limit them to only be able to mine 50 i

268
01:22:28.239 --> 01:22:48.070
don't know equal friendly true but in reality i don't i don't really see here where is fair i don't see the fairness in 50 50.

269
01:22:48.080 --> 01:23:08.870
so if you guys have an opinion on that time as i understand it 50 50 would not be a permanent split but whether it would be a sliding split so you would start at 50 50 and then he would transition towards the

270
01:23:06.800 --> 01:23:27.669
the kagak side right so there would be someone who decides um how this how this uh this the splits would evolve over time which would be one of those parameters that would go into the model did i understand this correctly but

271
01:23:25.840 --> 01:23:46.790
we didn't specify how the parameter changes are we just start at 50 50 we'll let the community decide you know what the right what the right strategy is our preference would be to slide over to kacheck um but to to to answer brother lies question is you know is this fair this is a business

272
01:23:46.800 --> 01:24:07.350
um a lot of that nine billion dollars the money's been recouped already on it the you know those four those four to six year old gpus are printing money because you know when the theorem started to go back up they were you know the roi on that was three months so you know the investment's already been recovered i don't know any other business

273
01:24:05.760 --> 01:24:26.070
in technology where the hardware lasts four to four to six years you know and most of the hardware has been in recovering their money in six months so it is a calculated risk you know the it's a business so as a result

274
01:24:23.440 --> 01:24:45.990
the incentive will be what's out there we've seen in kadena as an example that you know roughly the two-thirds the size of etc that the miners are very happy they've made new investments in new hardware and they've made money and they're loyal and they're ramping up their hash rate so

275
01:24:48.400 --> 01:25:08.470
best interest of the community and the industry job one of course is to look after etc job two is to make our ecosystem happy and uh you know there's two approaches we know that there's a flood coming what are we gonna do to prevent to you

276
01:25:07.120 --> 01:25:27.430
know prepare ourselves against the flood that's kind of why we recommended that the you know 1049 was a better approach because we can implement that now whereas the other approaches were a lot harder so you know if you're going to implement a new approach hybrid is going to take a little bit longer

277
01:25:27.440 --> 01:25:50.550
and you know just because it takes time if the community can't agree on 1049 then hybrid is a good approach but fundamentally etc needs to do something to enforce security and have a path forward on its own one

278
01:25:50.560 --> 01:26:13.430
is it's related to to the clients right so if you do hybrid proof of work you know you need to modify clients you need to do some research you need to maintain the clients with two algorithms at

279
01:26:09.920 --> 01:26:30.470
this point i'm not sure if we have enough people [Music] to do that because we only have one team one active team that maintains both

280
01:26:28.639 --> 01:26:49.750
clients now and adding a new algorithm can also pose new threats or vulnerabilities or i don't know new problems or abuses that may happen so how

281
01:26:46.880 --> 01:27:07.270
how do we include these problems in in your problem in your proposal still here but i couldn't hear the question clearly the

282
01:27:04.560 --> 01:27:25.590
the question is that new clients need to be maintained uh or developed and uh you know there's ongoing work how do you how do we propose that happen and you know there's some issues there could be some vulnerabilities introduced in the club client

283
01:27:22.560 --> 01:27:43.030
so you know my my proposal if i take the first stab at it was it just takes time that's why we put seven to nine months of development work there's only several main clients that need to be supported three

284
01:27:39.920 --> 01:28:02.229
for the case of etc so i don't think it's drastically different in each as long as we can come to consensus on what needs to be implemented i think that's the issue biggest issue right now there's two proposals on the table one is to do a hard fork to cacac altogether or

285
01:27:59.520 --> 01:28:21.110
this hybrid approach which kind of gives way for gpus to survive this large flood that's incoming because we know that the asics are already here in terms of these a6 so there is work to be done there are changes that have already been made

286
01:28:19.280 --> 01:28:43.830
for the cacac into the code base one of the reasons esip 1049 was essentially proposed is cacac is an integral part of the code base itself so i'm not saying there isn't a lot of work i'm just saying that it can be done in the time frame i

287
01:28:41.360 --> 01:29:01.990
have a theoretical question for uh for you henry and that is let's assume that uh we did start and then not saying this is going to happen but theoretically if the one of the two child three proposals was accepted and work had started and then let's

288
01:29:00.080 --> 01:29:20.149
say it was scheduled to be implemented this time next year but before then the merge happened and nothing went wrong and instead ethereum classic just got a much more hashrate but didn't get 51 attacked would you still be in favor of switching to sha-3 in

289
01:29:16.880 --> 01:29:37.910
that case basically you you can you got control of a algorithm and um you know it is more significant over time well you

290
01:29:36.239 --> 01:29:59.110
know the the people are loyal to your network and um you know i don't believe so this is personal i don't believe that the transition will be that orderly from the standpoint people are a theoretical thing though assuming that it did happen like that what is the advantage then of sha-3 in terms

291
01:29:54.960 --> 01:30:15.830
of control as you put it to the theory that you want to control your network you want control of the of the algorithm and um you know longer term if you're gonna be efficient mining so let's

292
01:30:13.199 --> 01:30:34.390
say let's say etc goes to you know donald donald always says that you know this thing etc will increase multiple-fold in a large in a very large network you want power efficiency and um you know i think i think that this gives us a

293
01:30:34.400 --> 01:30:59.189
better way to move forward erl do you have anything to add to that it's a theoretical question so i won't throw in my personal opinions in this form this

294
01:30:56.320 --> 01:31:16.790
context because it all depends on the relative hash rate so if if one hash is costs more power then you will have uh you you will have basically the same amount of money that goes into producing those hashes so if if if one hash costs

295
01:31:13.920 --> 01:31:36.390
more power and thus costs more money you get you get fewer hashes but each of them is more valuable you know in a way and if you use an algorithm that put that that computes a lot of hashes for with very little power then just your network hash rate goes up correspondingly so that's again you may you

296
01:31:33.760 --> 01:31:55.189
um equal in terms of the money you put into it uh basically you have equal power bills but different different numbers for the hash rate but you're not really more power efficient because if you if if you had only a tenth of the cost then you would just add

297
01:31:53.600 --> 01:32:15.750
more hash rate to to to get to a more benefit from from this advantage so in the end uh power efficiency doesn't really matter between algorithms it matters within the same algorithm so if you have a miner that is a lot more power efficient than another one that obviously you want to have the more power

298
01:32:12.239 --> 01:32:33.990
efficient one and uh but we have a with the etch we have the nice in the nice situation that the the market is still still very close together so even a uh a power aid efficient uh gpu that

299
01:32:31.679 --> 01:32:52.629
is well like uh like uh henry's example uh what is it the 570 and that that's not as pretty performance in terms of power efficiency but it's only about a factor of 10 between the top of the line a6 that have a very that

300
01:32:50.719 --> 01:33:12.629
use very complex and expensive technology to achieve that and with with compute computes only pow algorithms and there you have much larger differences there you have the photos of magnitude several orders of magnitude factor 100 or a thousand between

301
01:33:10.400 --> 01:33:30.629
the worst and the best so this is where i say that ets basically ensures a level playing ground and even if you look at it's at modern hardware that's where you will select the hardware such that it is power efficient then

302
01:33:28.239 --> 01:33:49.510
you only have a factor of about four between the best and so that's that's not too bad you that that's that's that's that's a range where uh you can deal with because you're just you're competing between similar things and the other factors that's the end of the equation for okay i agree but that only

303
01:33:48.080 --> 01:34:09.189
applies when there's when there's excess money for to to be earned you know per your hash rate so in a saturated situation being inefficient doesn't work so i'm looking forward to the ideal state when know blockchain matures and you see that efficiency

304
01:34:06.480 --> 01:34:29.110
matters so uh you look at bitcoin efficiency really matters in bitcoin and maybe it's idealistic of me to to pick a proof of work that has long legs for the future but it also ensures power efficiency so you know if in terms of cost for acquisition

305
01:34:25.760 --> 01:34:47.830
costs to operate the asics are a much better solution than gpus in my opinion and i think you'll find that most of the case elsewhere the the situation we're trying to address here is overpopulation versus stable and you know that one i've given the data in terms of what could

306
01:34:45.679 --> 01:35:05.830
happen in terms of our population it's up to the community you know and particularly the group of us to decide how do we secure etc's future and the 1049 proposal is you know probably one of the best ways to do so given the code base you know given the relative momentum

307
01:35:02.400 --> 01:35:25.109
that's been built up and you know i think it's got the ease i'll use the word easy in quotes it's got the highest probability of something that a lot of work's been done to that can easily be adapted to to etc

308
01:35:27.360 --> 01:35:49.430
well one thing is that uh it's not really a comparison between between um is that is unstable and some phase something uh constant because both will be affected by the by the flood that follows the merge either

309
01:35:47.119 --> 01:36:08.229
way whether you're a gpu mining etf or gpu mining you still have this flood of the of the gpus and if used if we stick with with etc then we just need to wait for the basically for the dust to settle and in

310
01:36:05.520 --> 01:36:27.830
the case of a transition to cac it means that not only has the does the dust have to settle but uh also a completely new mining ecosystem ecosystem needs to be built and this needs to ramp up if they ramp up their risks in there maybe investors say oh this is this is too

311
01:36:25.199 --> 01:36:45.270
much um maybe it's just not worth it to do to go to etc and then they will not invest as much as one would hope hope they would and in any case the also the the bar is very high because we're talking about one

312
01:36:41.199 --> 01:37:01.430
or two billions of dollars invested into equipment coming over to ethereum classic versus investing this into into new infrastructure and uh your your own estimate is only about

313
01:36:59.040 --> 01:37:19.189
100 million so that that's a 20th of the of what is already there just basically therefore they're taking so it's not really a comparison between between a safe bet and something uncertain but it's it's a lot of uncertainty for

314
01:37:16.880 --> 01:37:37.910
all gpu coins right so you look at my list there's not enough pow to absorb all the gpus all this you know in us in a pure shot three check situation you can say that it absorbs more gpus so you know instead of absorbing today

315
01:37:34.400 --> 01:37:56.629
you know a million gpus if you you know if you say that one one ace one jeep sorry one fpga can absorb 15 to 25 gpus then all of a sudden that neutralizes more so it's you know there's

316
01:37:56.639 --> 01:38:19.669
if there's less uh space for gpus then that means there's more latent gpus going around not less correct so that's why that's why the check strategy will absorb more gpus because it's more difficult you know it's more difficult to to to

317
01:38:15.040 --> 01:38:35.750
uh garner hash rate on gpus on check but then that means there's more latent gpus going around which is the problem right yeah unfortunately can't do anything about that those latin gpus are around hey hey guys it's uh etc punk i have a couple

318
01:38:34.560 --> 01:38:56.470
thoughts i want to chime in if that's okay yeah go ahead um main thing one of the misconceptions i think on ecip 1049 is that um infrastructure it actually kind of expands

319
01:38:54.000 --> 01:39:14.870
the ability to use the existing infrastructure as a starting point and then gives us the opportunity to give the mining community the opportunity to expand from there because uh catrack 256 is much more compatible with

320
01:39:12.080 --> 01:39:33.030
across different types of equipment so as opposed you know we're saying oh we're gonna have to rebuild from the ground up that's that's not really true at all we're actually gonna capture you know the already mining uh gpus on etc plus any of the fpgas that are out there uh

321
01:39:30.960 --> 01:39:51.270
that want you know to participate and all of that but so i think it's actually gonna expand um what's already in place and then from there as uh you know perhaps asics come down the pipeline and it would expand um but this isn't an argument

322
01:39:48.719 --> 01:40:09.750
can i just respond to that the argument of the flood is that the problem is that there is too much gpus and it will flood the network so by expanding you're making the problem worse not better isn't it not necessarily because there's a difference in competitiveness so the main

323
01:40:07.679 --> 01:40:27.990
case that i've been saying you know for a long time now is that problem with the flood isn't isn't that there's too much hash rate it's that there's too much equal hash rate it's actually going to in my opinion it's going to but for the sake of argument we'll just say it's potentially going to convert

324
01:40:24.560 --> 01:40:45.109
the incentive structure so the the security model only really works if it's most profitable uh you know if there's too much of equal hash power of relatively equal efficiency

325
01:40:43.280 --> 01:41:03.590
which as werner made a great case for it is pretty it isn't really that competitive across gpus asics are moderately more efficient but there is you know quite a bit out there as well so i think that what you're doing is you're introducing a more competitive opportunity to miners where now you have a

326
01:41:02.159 --> 01:41:22.790
chance to actually compete because you're spreading it across the full spectrum of equipment so that's what is going to really make it you know more secure during that transition so um and then to answer your question i just was thinking uh there were some pretty interesting comments in

327
01:41:21.440 --> 01:41:42.149
the old github conversations about one of the other added benefits of catch active 56 is that it's going to allow clients to be a little bit lighter in the sense that i

328
01:41:39.199 --> 01:42:02.149
guess it improves interoperability and the ability to do a lot of other things since you're not requiring like this super huge dag file to be downloaded every you know four days or five days or whatever um for the client software so it's gonna it could potentially allow uh some pretty uh

329
01:41:59.040 --> 01:42:19.430
some pretty new and interesting um kind of improvements on the client side and and uh some some daps that could be interacting that way um i just want to chime in my thoughts before we get too too long here i'm gonna have to go in in a few minutes but um i really like this presentation henry i

330
01:42:18.480 --> 01:42:40.709
i appreciate the work that you've put into it i think explains it puts the numbers and kind of puts the data behind a lot of the the things that i've been saying and seen um on my end for a while um i do think that uh you

331
01:42:37.920 --> 01:42:59.270
know like i said going straight to 10 1049 is probably probably just as secure as a as a hybrid model in that the existing uh gpus will be able to mine both anyways so i think that it's probably an equal cool

332
01:42:56.880 --> 01:43:17.030
security but there might be some other components that i'm missing in my in my thoughts on it but it's definitely interesting to to use i think history you might have actually been the first one to to propose the uh sliding hybrid transition model back in 2019 i think i saw on github um

333
01:43:17.040 --> 01:43:37.590
so yeah it's an interesting idea it potentially could be more secure as a transition solution but um from where i stand because most of the hash rate on our network and uh you know is gpus they can mine both anyways so it's it's you know may not be as

334
01:43:34.400 --> 01:43:56.310
much of an issue as we think it is and uh and then the last thing i was gonna say is that uh there's been a lot of conversation as you know we've successfully uh implemented mystique uh i think it was yesterday right that's that's pretty great um now that maybe we're going to be kind of talking

335
01:43:54.080 --> 01:44:15.750
more about this and bob maybe is going to be stepping into the champion role for for the 1049 proposal i thought maybe it might be a good idea to actually go back through and track and and just create a kind of a comprehensive document that that provides links and records

336
01:44:13.520 --> 01:44:35.830
the opinions shared by everybody throughout time because this is a very long standing proposal so it's it's gotten to be a huge burden to be able to see easily where everyone has stood throughout time and uh and some people have changed their stances over time too which has been kind of interesting to see so i actually made a document it's almost

337
01:44:33.119 --> 01:44:54.070
done i've got all of i'm calling it like the consensus tracker if we want to call it that and i'll share it with you guys once it's completed here or current i should say but it's just a document that lists pretty much anyone who's ever said anything related

338
01:44:51.520 --> 01:45:11.830
to sha-3 or ketchup 256 on github and then i'm i'm going through um the discord archives which are huge around that topic and just adding in people's comments from there just to get a really really quantifiable idea what

339
01:45:09.280 --> 01:45:31.430
the actual community thinks across the time span because a lot of people have come and gone and some people might still be around but they're just not active in the community anymore and they may have voiced their opinions in the past so um i just wanted to share that i'm putting that together and i'll be i'll be providing that to the community pretty soon probably like a shared drive that everyone

340
01:45:28.960 --> 01:45:50.149
can can see as it gets updated so if you have an opinion and you haven't shared it on on this proposal feel free to um you can dm me or you can just post it in the ketchup 256 sub channel and i'll make sure and update the the tracker that's all that's an awesome idea thanks for uh the initiative

341
01:45:47.600 --> 01:46:08.790
i i can't believe that hasn't been done before for other things and it's a really uh a good way of getting you know approaching consensus nice one i hope it's helpful i mean at the very least it's it's gonna allow for it's just data you know we can at least see it instead of just kind of hypothesizing of

342
01:46:07.440 --> 01:46:28.550
what people have said or done in the past henry based on your paper there was a line in there that said there are plenty of asic manufacturers delivering

343
01:46:26.800 --> 01:46:47.830
sha-3 capabilities on handshake who can build a shar3 miner like gold shell and iverlink does that mean there's shar 3 a6 already existing or it hasn't related um so uh i answered that two ways i think i posted

344
01:46:46.239 --> 01:47:07.510
online in the discussion of warner that all the people making etas asics are capable of making a check 256 slash soft3 asic so that's you know that that indicates potential same with the comment that you pull from the

345
01:47:04.560 --> 01:47:27.109
white paper which is that ib link and gold shower making you know making shawl 3 capable products already and that has inherently shell 3 built in we believe there's another network out there called there was a small network called mir which there was i think about one

346
01:47:24.000 --> 01:47:47.750
tera hash worth fpgas and asics out there so that network is more for the most more for the islamic community so we can't we can't read all the documentation on it but you know you saw you saw growth in that in that network and that would certainly indicate uh

347
01:47:43.440 --> 01:48:04.709
you know combination of fpgas and um and asics and if you go to if you go to uh one of the funk sites fpga guide you know that will show a wide variety of fpga miners out there so you know that's as much as we can determine uh

348
01:48:02.960 --> 01:48:23.030
you know there's some smaller shawl three coins out there like smart uh smart cash i believe it is um you know none of them show any sustained activity of asics uh probably because they're too small for asic manufacturers to be interested in so that's kind of my anecdotal

349
01:48:20.880 --> 01:48:41.910
evidence on you know there may be one out there but you know it hasn't showed up in any in any significant fashion and i think that these are all just you know maybe old engineering prototypes that were developed but never commercialized fpgas are definitely the what's on the shaw three

350
01:48:39.840 --> 01:49:01.510
smaller shot three networks at this point and one thing about the what you said that anybody who has a an etch asic can also make uh a shafuy or asic

351
01:48:58.560 --> 01:49:19.189
uh it's that's something that's a bit like saying that anybody who currently makes a tractor can also build a

352
01:49:05.760 --> 01:49:25.910
form formula one race car uh not can not will it's

353
01:49:23.920 --> 01:49:44.950
worth noting guys that uh there's records uh years ago of various people manufacturing asics for some of those other algorithms who did chime into the conversation at one point or another and say um suggesting that they could provide hardware or or software um you know for that

354
01:49:42.480 --> 01:50:03.189
implementation so it is it has been said before something here but i just wanted to go over a point that i still don't fully understand um with regards to the flood and how

355
01:50:00.880 --> 01:50:23.510
it doesn't apply in char three world right so in the case of eth hash um if a bunch of gpu miners come over there'll be way too many gpus and that's a bad thing forget about a6 even just the gpus is bad but if it was on sha 3 it's the same problem right except because

356
01:50:20.800 --> 01:50:43.669
there's ffpgas there's more shah three gpus going around so how is it a better situation on child three than it is on with regards to the flood specifically um two two answers to that right so the splitting at 50 50 means that the

357
01:50:40.800 --> 01:51:02.470
group the blockchain etc is immune to any nefarious activity right it's it's a that's why i use the seesaw approach that no one side can dominate but imagine it's a second image well

358
01:51:00.320 --> 01:51:20.950
then you know there's a if it's just sha-3 then that's actually very interesting because if you buy my premise that one that one gpu equals um or sorry 20 15 to 25 gpus equals one fpga

359
01:51:18.560 --> 01:51:38.790
then that has the impact of neutralizing a lot of gpus so you know it's kind of the it's kind of the big it's kind of you know like if

360
01:51:36.880 --> 01:51:58.390
the problem is too many spare hash rate going around then having ffpgas makes the problem worse not better no no the fpga so the fpgas are finite in volume right so even though xilinx mix makes a ton of fpgas though you know as far as we can figure

361
01:51:55.360 --> 01:52:15.510
there's about 200 we were told there's 200 000 in in mining but you know more than 200 000 so i don't know how big that number is but essentially what what it does is there's not i showed that you needed 20 million fpgas to to

362
01:52:12.560 --> 01:52:35.189
consume the network so based on equivalent hash rate so uh what this would what the onset of sha-3 let's forget our fpgas for a sec in terms of you know hash rate consumption if we're to say forget about economics as well just

363
01:52:32.000 --> 01:52:52.470
to say how many can it consume based on operating costs then we'd say based on operating costs it would consume more fpgas than sorry more gpus on the sha-3 side than on the if hash i because sha-3

364
01:52:52.480 --> 01:53:12.629
uses more compute power same same argument as progpal that you know progpal used more compute power um you know i can go through the math i can go through the math and kind of answer that question more directly for you but it basically takes it's the same population and makes it less

365
01:53:08.800 --> 01:53:29.510
overpopulated it not just diluting the mining reward therefore making it unprofitable to mine with gpus of

366
01:53:25.840 --> 01:53:47.669
the gpu base enabling the i think fatality finality-wise the high-end gpus have a hope and the low-end

367
01:53:40.719 --> 01:54:02.470
gpus don't have a hope that's basically the scenario that we have to with with keeping edc hash at the c cheap uh the big gpus have a very bleak future with

368
01:54:00.239 --> 01:54:22.470
the with the merge and the floods that's pretty obvious but the the more efficient gpus that are not that far away from informatics they will compete with them for the for the post flood time so obviously there will be there will be a time when when things will

369
01:54:20.159 --> 01:54:41.030
be difficult when they may not be able to mine profitably where they might just decide to shut down their farms for for a while and wait till the market sorted things out or maybe they just decide to go on mining and just collect the coins and and hope they will recover their cost later but in

370
01:54:39.440 --> 01:54:59.910
any case they have a long planning horizon because they they can they can bet on the money profitability to go up again um as it usually does and uh then they're back in the game while

371
01:54:57.360 --> 01:55:18.470
if you make an algorithm change that uh that kills them then they know that after within a year or maybe less when when the asics come then it's game over for them and that's that that's an in that's an inevitable outcome

372
01:55:15.440 --> 01:55:35.589
basically also what uh what digipunk says the the the stable scenario uh it's only the scenario that's that you reach once a6 once purpose build a6 for for cac okay are availability sufficient quantity to support

373
01:55:33.440 --> 01:55:55.830
the the hash rate before that you still have this tradition this transitional scenario where one type of technology completely forces out the other we have seen this with bitcoin at the beginning it was cpu mining and everybody was happy then um i mean

374
01:55:51.760 --> 01:56:13.589
one cpu one vote and so on and then the fpgas came in fbha's are great for this kind of compute only algorithms they're not so great for for each because eth needs a lot of memory which fpgas are not so good at but they're great for doing those little computations

375
01:56:10.000 --> 01:56:30.790
so they completely forced out the cpus because you are so much more efficient and for once you have an fpga then you already have the beginning of a design for for an asic so we got first generation of a6 that were essentially fpga

376
01:56:28.800 --> 01:56:50.870
designs converted into asics which were again a lot more efficient than the the fpgas and then there were several generations of of improved asics we're now at things like like 100 terahash miner per

377
01:56:47.679 --> 01:57:07.990
second combiner while on on etihash we have something like 2.5 gigahertz per seconds per miner and um so this shows the shorty shortly shows that the this rapid evolution of the of the hash

378
01:57:05.520 --> 01:57:26.229
rate now in in this was of course because the technology was building up over time and nowadays it would be much faster because you would you would try to skip the intermediate steps we already know that i mean you already know what the what the ideal design would roughly deliver and you would

379
01:57:24.480 --> 01:57:44.550
aim would aim to be close to as close to this as possible so you would not use say a low density uh low density process but you would go for a height high density process like seven nanometers or less and you

380
01:57:42.080 --> 01:58:02.550
would so if you basically get the kitah get the whole development in an accelerated way but still you have the situation that every generation would obsolete the previous one so anybody who invests in a previous generation um knows that within a few months the investment

381
01:58:00.400 --> 01:58:22.229
will be lost which is also a strong negative incentive uh for investing into into this ecosystem because you already or you know before you you've reached the end point uh you will just make a sacrifice so that's a very unstable scenario that's also something that has to be considered

382
01:58:19.760 --> 01:58:40.229
but how this would pan out uh let everyone know that we're reaching the two hour mark and uh whilst we can go on with the sha-3 debate i just wanted to check if there's anyone

383
01:58:38.880 --> 01:59:01.589
else that wanted to bring up a topic who's been uh hankering to bring something that's non-chartery related before we continue on this just so we get time to make sure that everyone has

384
01:58:49.599 --> 01:59:11.669
their topic brought up discussion

385
01:59:03.679 --> 01:59:25.510
or we could wrap up contact me offline as well you know for those people they're going to sign off i want to thank you for your time and you know your contributions to community and listening to you

386
01:59:23.040 --> 01:59:43.669
know listening to my rationale i hope that the information inspires some thought and really shows what may happen in terms of post-merge we don't all have the answers but you know as as sun tzu says that you know know thyself

387
01:59:41.199 --> 02:00:03.669
know thy enemy and most importantly have a battle plan for success that's kind of paraphrased but you know really the merge does represent a a future event that may have negative consequences on the network and you know all i'm here to do is to show what could happen in this case you

388
02:00:00.960 --> 02:00:22.149
know if we move to asic some of the repercussions you know some of the flaws and then some of the benefits of moving you know historia i don't you know i don't know what's going to happen to the gpu hash rate you know i just know that the sha-3 will consume more of the hash rate and make it

389
02:00:20.000 --> 02:00:40.149
more difficult for the you know for the older gp60 there's no doubt that gps will fall out by moving to higher end gpus and higher-end hardware we negate the impact of excess population of of the you

390
02:00:36.880 --> 02:00:58.390
know eth a6 and the low end gpus which in itself is huge amounts of power all right huge amounts of hash power appreciate you uh hosting these calls uh i think at the beginning you mentioned

391
02:00:56.719 --> 02:01:17.189
that the website you're releasing uh like a brand new one or a major revamp when is that uh getting released again released for those that are interested in the discord channel uh you can find the link in the website uh channel if you

392
02:01:15.360 --> 02:01:38.950
want to take a look but we are planning i'm hoping to announce the public release by next week by either 20 on this call next week on the 22nd at 2nd 22 so uh within the week for any final edits or complaints or suggestions from the the community before

393
02:01:35.360 --> 02:01:56.629
we go live you give the floor to any final points or contributions

394
02:01:55.280 --> 02:02:16.790
if anyone wants to make them final call and contributing and uh but participating in the ongoing sha 3 debate

395
02:02:12.800 --> 02:02:33.830
it's uh definitely lots of crevices to get into so i think it's important that we get there and get to the bottom of something that we can all agree on and having having the conversation is important i think and i'm glad that in this

396
02:02:31.679 --> 02:02:47.840
format we can remain fairly civil so i thanks thanks everyone for joining us this time and for taking part and listening and sharing on youtube and etc and uh we hope to see you next week so thanks again bye-bye bye-bye okay thanks bye
```
