---
number: 14
description: DAO Hacker Unmasked, Website Launch
date: 2022-02-22
time: 1500 UTC
location: Discord
joinLink: https://ethereumclassic.org/discord
youtube: UD7t7qMNoyk
hosts:
  - Istora
  - BroLal
---

## Description

A casual voice chat to discuss ideas for ETC. All are welcome.

The ETC Discord can be joined at https://ethereumclassic.org/discord

Please join us in the #community-calls channel to ask questions or bring up topics.

## Agenda

- RECAP: ETC Core Devs Call 22: Proposed Rejection of ECIP-1049 review, https://youtube.com/watch?v=lpdZgsAbPXo
- BREAKING: DAO HACKER UNMASKED??
  - https://www.forbes.com/sites/laurashin/2022/02/22/exclusive-austrian-programmer-and-ex-crypto-ceo-likely-stole-11-billion-of-ether/?sh=5621f9017f58 
  - https://www.bloombergquint.com/businessweek/a-trip-down-the-crypto-rabbit-hole-in-search-of-the-dao-hacker
  - https://nitter.42l.fr/avsa/status/1496109516445954055
- Website Launch & Concepts
- Open Discussion

## Spillover Topics

- Bridges vs Algo Stablecoins?
- Conference 2022?
- ETCDAO Gigs Reminder https://github.com/ETCDAO/gigs

## Status

- Completed
- Duration: 1hr 10mins
- Attendees: ~20
- Recording: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UD7t7qMNoyk

## Meeting Minutes

The weekly Ethereum Classic Community Call 014 was held on 2022.02.22 at 1500 UTC on Ethereum Classic Discord.

### Overview

During this meeting, the chair made general recaps of ETC Core Devs Call 22, which was hosted by Ronan about rejection of ECIP-1049. Comments were made about this call. Several items such as the new champion, DAO hacker, website concepts, ECIP-1049, ECIP-1096, the hybrid system, compatibility, EVM standard, etc. were discussed at length. The participants shared their ideas and views, the gist of which is as under.

### Points

- RECAP: ETC Core Devs Call 22
  - Overall comments
    - The call was very passionate about the ECT and ECIP-1049. Alex, the author has joined the call. During the call, Ronan expressed some views about the proposal that it hasn&#39;t been updated. And there are still things missing in it. Overall, that discussion was very mixed with some ambiguous points. (2:58)
    - Future discussions can be hosted in a more orderly manner through twitter spaces and other techniques. (3:28)
    - The call deviated from its purposes. Invoked by an official editor in the ECIP system, it is a technical call with a specific objective which is to decide whether to move ECIP-1049 or to reject it. For one thing, the call was a core developer call, but four core developers didn&#39;t get the chance to speak. For another, the official editor seemed to have his own hidden agenda for he criticized the ECIP-1049 on its format, structural issues, avoiding the reason why he had invoked coal. In the end, it was an editor who used the ECIP-1049 system and pushed a personal agenda to reject a change that he doesn&#39;t like, which makes this discussion less productive. (10:03)

- The New Champion
  - **General introduction:** Bob Samul is now champion of the ECIP-1049. As a neutral and trusted community member, he will be leading things forward with SHA-3. He can keep everything well-organized. (4:12)
  - **Bob&#39;s**  **action:** Bob has offered an update about how things are done. Technically speaking, the guest client may not be 100% ready for this mining. Rushing into this is not ideal, even though Alex has proposed a block number for the switch. (4:52)
  - **Bob&#39;s**  **thought**** :**
    - Bob believed it&#39;s essential to think properly about the transition and how to best avoid a chain split before putting this forward. Hard fork is contentious because the network hash rate is split by a new algorithm. A chain split is likely to spread further if the thing is not approached correctly. It needs to be done in a methodical long-term strategy. (6:00)
    - Bob agreed that ECIP-1049 is not necessarily the best approach to avoid a flood of extra GPUs. He also mentioned transition switching from one algorithm to another is a tricky issue since it hasn&#39;t been implemented or tested. We have not been well-prepared yet and we need the results provided by developers. (7:40)

- Breaking: DAO Hacker Unmasked
  - In Forbes, the DAO hacker is ETC&#39;s founding father, to some extent. This was the announcement dropped by Laura shin who has a new book, _The Cryptopians: Idealism, Greed, Lies, and the Making of the First Big Cryptocurrency Craze_corroborated by Alex Anderson. Alex Anderson is a well-respected member of the theorem community. We might consider inviting some of the experts to join our conversation. (25:33)
  - The funds will most likely be returned to the DAO token holders who are the rightful owners of the ETC. Ironically, the identifying of this DAO hacker further proved that the hard fork on Ethereum was completely unnecessary, because even without the incentive of all the funds, he still got caught. Therefore, if only this had been without hard fork, it&#39;s almost guaranteed that it would have been caught within a couple years. And that means the hard folk were entirely unnecessary. Code prevails. A different article on Bloomberg unmasked a different guy who is not fully confirmed yet. (28:28)
  - There are many cases where bad guys can be caught on the social layer and not by reorganizing the chain manually. If the hacker was caught moving the money, it means that the hacker just moved a little amount of money, and he was caught because of that. The vast majority is still staying in the account. (29:50)

- Website Launch &amp; Concepts

  - **Code is law:**
    - That code is law is a thing that only exists in the contract layer and off chain, traditional law exists. The idea of code is law is not to necessarily get rid of existing laws. It&#39;s just an additional jurisdiction, a virtual jurisdiction that can exist over above the geographical legal jurisdictions that exist today. This argument can be seen in the new website. There is a whole new section wise classic, which covers bunch of topics. This section is an introduction to the Significance of Ethereum Classic. Block chains are only valuable when one has code is law.
    - The genesis section discusses in depth about what happened during the DAO and wraps things up with some philosophical problems that Ethereum may meet now. A block train should be immutability and unstoppability. In fact, the Ethereum slogan was built on stoppable applications. But having stopped one of the first applications that got big, its past actions contradict its purported value proposition. So Ethereum Classic is there to fill a void. But to do this, Ethereum Classic needs to maintain this idea of decentralism or decentralization maximums. Decentralization is achieved as much as possible in all layers of the social, political, technological stack. That means making sure both the organizational structure as well as the protocol itself is decentralized. So that means one can&#39;t have a foundation. Ethereum Classic doesn&#39;t just like bitcoin.
    - By not having those centralized points of failure, it can survive long term, because basically, if the project relies on a foundation, the project can only exist if that foundation does. This philosophy can basically be summarized with the idea of F equals BTC equals ETC. Ethereum Classic combines the philosophy of bitcoin and the technology of Ethereum. And two of the main examples of this are the sound mandatory policy of bitcoin applied to Ethereum in the fixed emission curve the theorem classic has such that there is no chance of runaway inflation, especially in the case of proof of state transitions. (35:08)
  - **Internationalization:**
    - Since the new website is released, the next step will be focused on internationalization. Therefore, we&#39;re going to be trying to get all of the content translated into as many different languages as possible. We are targeting the most spoken languages first like Chinese and Spanish. We will be using a third-party translation service called Crowdin which makes translation easier. We&#39;re also hoping to be encouraging contributions in the form of tutorial videos and blog posts which will be easier for third parties to add their YouTube videos and new applications. (36:48)
    - In the future, if there&#39;s a pool available, we could potentially create a lottery system or reward a certain amount of ETC every month to anyone that contributes.ETC is philosophically much more aligned with Bitcoin. (37:50)

- Open Discussion. 45:33

  - **The hybrid**** system:** The topic about the hybrid system is worthy of wider discussion. Regardless of what happens, even if we do move to SHA-3, there might be in the future where SHA-4 is needed. (46:27)
  - **ECIP-1096:** In August of 2020, there were 51% attacks on ETC and the person who wrote ECIP-1096 from RSK came to Ethereum Classic to propose two things. One was to merge mining with Bitcoin. Another was to eliminate independent mining and use the Bitcoin miners to produce the blocks for ETC so the Bitcoin miners would produce the blocks for Bitcoin. This means to use the same hashing power of Bitcoin, but to also produce blocks for ETC that would eliminate 100% of the miner base that is dedicated to ETC. The blocks of the network RSK are also produced by the Bitcoin miner base. Therefore, it merged mining and was rejected at the time in terms of debate. Hence, there&#39;s no plans to merge mining in Ethereum Classic. (49:50)
  - **Explanation for compatibility:** Ethereum is going to be largely backwards compatible so that all the contracts that have deployed already will still operate. The Ethereum foundation chain is likely to remain compatible with Ethereum Classic. But it&#39;s difficult to tell what they&#39;re planning in the long term and whether they&#39;re going to break that compatibility or require some weird new contract system. Hence there&#39;s no guarantee that compatibility will be maintained indefinitely. But for the foreseeable future, it will remain. (52:00)
  - **EVM standard:** A virtual machine standard is called EVM standard Ethereum. There&#39;s a group of block chains that all use the EVM standard. In Ethereum Classic, there&#39;s other proof of block chains that use the EVM standard. Therefore, all that group of block chains should continue to use the EVM standard, because when one is within the standard, one must follow the lead of the standard. It&#39;s going to be unlikely that ETC Ethereum and the other EVM chains are not going to be compatible. This is because the normal behavior of these technological systems is networking. In terms of likelihood, ETC today is 100% compatible in the sense that it is the identical technology In Ethereum. It is going to continue to be compatible because any future changes of the EVM standard is very likely going to be followed by all EVM chains. (53:25)
  - **Up codes:** The recent mystique hard fork is convincing, because one of the up codes added to London was not integrated. So, any contract that uses that up code is currently not able to be deployed on ETC. Therefore, EVM is essential for ETC to implement as soon as possible not just for compatibility, but also making future hard folks easier. It&#39;s also one of the completely non-contentious, only upside kind of hard forks that the whole community can get around. (54:45) They&#39;re going to be some underlying technological differences in proof of work and monetary policy of the model. Since Ethereum already changed, some up-codes may be not compatible. So that makes them different. For a developer who wants code is not going to be the same on one chain and another. (55:31)

### Action Points

1. Improvement of the consensual list with more diversified options.
2. Collection of suggestions on the consensual list for SHA-3.
3. Creation of Discord Bot/Implementation of voting system on GitHubthat allows drawing pollsfor the long-term debate.
4. Invitation of Laura shin/Absa???to shed light on the issue.
5. Collection of feedback and review to make a better website.
6. Preparation of a series of videos to explain each section.
7. Arrangement of a physical conference for ETC this year or next year (Visas/entry rules/travel restrictions).
8. Arrangement of an online hackathon.
9. Donald will present a two-hour course about block chainnext week but not on Tuesday.

---

## Full Transcript

```webvtt
WEBVTT

NOTE no-names

1
00:00:03.919 --> 00:00:25.269
hello and welcome to ethereum classic community calls chat that happens on the ethereum classic discord server every tuesday usually at 1500 hours utc the content of these calls is decided by the etc community if you'd like to contribute you can join us on discord at ethereumclassic.org

2
00:00:22.880 --> 00:00:43.510
discord and you'll find us in the community course channel if you'd like to help spread the good word of classic make sure you comment on this video like it subscribe share and hit the notification bell to

3
00:00:38.719 --> 00:00:59.590
etc community call number 14 for the 22nd of february 2022 we got all the twos today so thanks for joining us on this very special day we have a bit of a mixed

4
00:00:57.120 --> 00:01:17.270
agenda today some general recaps of goings-on this week uh yesterday there was an etc core dev call number 22 which was hosted by ronin about uh proposing to reject ecip 1849 and

5
00:01:14.640 --> 00:01:36.310
you you'll be able to find the full recording of that on youtube linked in the show description unfortunately some of the audio was not fully available i think there was some issue with the discord bandwidth or something like that but uh you could get a general idea of what was going on and i thought it was a productive

6
00:01:34.400 --> 00:01:57.190
conversation i wasn't personally at the call but uh i believe we were joined by uh brolaw or brother uh who was on the call what do you think the call brother hello um [Music] the call was uh was

7
00:01:54.000 --> 00:02:14.150
very passionate about etc um about about the esib also alex the author has has joined the call and i think ronin did

8
00:02:14.160 --> 00:02:35.430
did good by by calling a meeting for for this egypt because he has expressed some views about uh about the proposal that it hasn't been updated there there are still

9
00:02:33.120 --> 00:02:55.190
things missing in it and we also had some views about was the past what's the path forward but overall the discussion was very mixed and there

10
00:02:50.959 --> 00:03:13.110
were some ambiguous points yeah it seemed to um whilst there were productive parts there were also some uh i guess less uh uh how can we say i it didn't exactly go without uh people talking over each other at certain points which is never uh

11
00:03:10.560 --> 00:03:31.990
ideal and there were suggestions i guess to use potentially a different forum um other than discord for this kind of conversation some people were mentioning using twitter spaces for example which i've never used before but i believe allows you to uh have a more orderly discussion via like hand raising and that kind of thing so

12
00:03:30.239 --> 00:03:50.869
maybe that's a better option for future technical discussions like that in terms of the of my overall impression i think there were some good takeaways uh namely the most important thing being that uh bob samuel is now championing the ecip so in terms of things

13
00:03:48.959 --> 00:04:09.110
moving forward there's a kind of neutral and trusted community member that will be leading things forward with shah 3 and it seems that he has a fairly reasonable perspective on how things should be done and when things should be done and isn't trying to like rush things forward

14
00:04:11.519 --> 00:04:34.150
that conversation about how things stand technically speaking we know now that the guest client is not perfectly

15
00:04:29.360 --> 00:04:49.749
ready he's not 100 ready for uh for checkup mining and we also know that rushing into this is not ideal even

16
00:04:45.840 --> 00:05:07.430
though alex has proposed a block number for for the switch yeah i think one of the good points that bob raised was that uh in the past it has been a case of like specifying a future block number for example with phoenix hard fork but that just created problems

17
00:05:05.199 --> 00:05:26.310
because the code base wasn't necessarily ready for that block number so it seems like his approach is to make sure that everything's ready technically first and then set a block number afterwards which to me seems more sensible additionally i think um bob is aware and rightfully so about the the

18
00:05:24.320 --> 00:05:45.270
idea of like not trying to uh push this without thinking properly about the transition and how to best avoid a chain split and uh there are some some have the view that the very idea of a chain split is just trying to spread fart or fear uncertainty and doubt but uh i think it's a genuine danger

19
00:05:43.840 --> 00:06:04.629
if this uh this thing is not approached correctly because it's not it's not just your typical hard fork that is contentious it's it's that but on top of that you're splitting the the network hash rate by uh having a new algorithm so it really needs to be done carefully to prevent a permanent chain split and like a

20
00:06:02.639 --> 00:06:24.309
minor revolt of some sort so as we've been discussing these calls and previously and my personal opinion is that it needs to be done in a methodical long-term strategy as opposed to something to be pushed for as like sooner rather than later and uh i guess that from what i listen to the conversation

21
00:06:22.080 --> 00:06:42.230
it seems that bob agrees and trying trying to use this as a means to avoid a flood of extra gpus is not necessarily the best approach yes

22
00:06:39.280 --> 00:06:59.350
you are right he he has also mentioned that regarding the transition switching from one algorithm to another it's very tricky it hasn't been implemented or tested so saying

23
00:06:57.919 --> 00:07:20.870
that we are ready to go it's i i don't think it's real it's uh doable before uh before the merge if uh resources or how should i say this the developers will

24
00:07:16.960 --> 00:07:38.390
want to work on this for the next in the next months and provide the results we we may have something that we can look at but uh till then uh we

25
00:07:34.720 --> 00:07:55.189
need to wait and see see what happens one other thing about the discussion yesterday uh what i didn't like was that we had four core four core developers who

26
00:07:51.919 --> 00:08:13.110
who didn't really get the chance to to speak so that didn't go very well regarding that um i think it's good for to have a call and have a passionate debate about an issue so i

27
00:08:10.080 --> 00:08:30.790
share the almost the opinion with you guys that it was overall it was good but i think that the call was a core developer call that is usually more technical and it had a specific objective so it was an editor an official editor that is in the ecib

28
00:08:27.599 --> 00:08:48.710
system who is who invoked the call specifically to move to to vote or to decide whether to move ecip 1049 to reject it and the that that same editor he he put like his political reason his political reason

29
00:08:46.399 --> 00:09:08.389
was because the the network could split in the future if we if we if we approved that at ecip the the thing is that immediately yesterday in the call he he moved to criticize the ecip on how it was written the

30
00:09:06.320 --> 00:09:28.150
format structural issues and he avoided the reason why he had invoked the call so i think that i was prepared just to argue about whether to move to reject it or not and and not to go over all the other things and and i think that that was not honest on the editor the

31
00:09:25.360 --> 00:09:46.870
person who invoked the call so that's that's my opinion about about the call i think it should have lasted 20 30 minutes it was not about whether safety is good or bad it was it was whether to move it to reject it or not based on what three years had passed and

32
00:09:44.560 --> 00:10:05.110
if that meant that he said he was dead and stale that was it um so i think that in the end it was an editor who used the ecip system to push his personal agenda to reject a change that he doesn't like which i don't think that's

33
00:10:02.800 --> 00:10:23.910
that's good um regarding um the strategy going forward now talking about shot three the change in the shot three personally i i i i think that the etc should eventually move to sha three but i agree with istora that we have to be very careful i

34
00:10:22.240 --> 00:10:45.350
don't agree with that brother that it is not ready it is ready because it is it is technically integrated and tested and all that and from now until block 16 million it can be perfectly ready so i think that's alex meant it's really technically not necessarily in

35
00:10:41.279 --> 00:11:01.350
terms of rough consensus or agreement in the community evidently there's no agreement in the community so that that's where we have to be careful and i agree with the store i thought it was very interesting the the last week's um community community call about hybrid proof of work initially

36
00:10:59.600 --> 00:11:19.670
my thought was that it's better just to move cleanly from one from etc to sha-3 but i was thinking in the last week that maybe because of this overflow of gpu miners and the risk that they could keep the old chain and split maybe

37
00:11:17.040 --> 00:11:38.870
maybe we could maybe we could think about using the hybrid method where we start only with twenty percent say three and eighty percent gpus um and then and then go migrating uh making every once a year say by 20 shot three

38
00:11:36.240 --> 00:11:56.389
from 20 to 40 and then the next year from 40 to 60 to 80 and by the fifth year it's um a hundred percent shot three so you go gradually like green did so i was thinking about that in last in the last week yeah that's uh also my position if if shah

39
00:11:55.440 --> 00:12:17.509
3 is the end goal then i think that's the most reasonable way to do it it's uh i guess the analogy is kind of like pulling on a piece of string right you want to you want to eventually get to the end point but if you pull it too hard you're gonna snap it and it'll break in two so it needs to be kind of like wedged in and slowly like ramped up as opposed to like

40
00:12:15.200 --> 00:12:35.670
suddenly jolting the whole network um and there's a few advantages yeah i think so so yeah when i think one when rollout when brother was talking about um it not being ready my impression from the call was that the the main part that's not really ready is the

41
00:12:34.000 --> 00:12:55.190
like uh i guess the technical details about how a transition is going to happen and that includes whether it's a slow migration or like even if it is just a certain switch then how do you deal with the difficulty change and how do you unlike a contract level how how do you program in that kind of stuff so yeah

42
00:12:55.200 --> 00:13:15.590
um there are also some some deficiencies on the on the technical part of the of the ecip i mean uh they should they should be easy to fix but it just hasn't been done there's no for example there's no proper specification of what the proposed algorithm change actually is and that's

43
00:13:13.519 --> 00:13:34.230
that's just something that needs to be done my impression of this of this whole discussion yesterday is that basically like the the co-op the core part that was the decision whether the ecib should be should be rejected or should

44
00:13:31.600 --> 00:13:52.629
continue um that could have been reduced quite a lot i think i think that git warning was quite right to bring bring this issue up because the according to the rules of ecip 1000 the this proposal wasn't moving forward even though there was

45
00:13:50.639 --> 00:14:11.350
a lot of discussion on on this court but the formal process was stalled for a long time and basically it was it was due for for removal except if somebody steps up and um and uh takes charge they takes

46
00:14:09.199 --> 00:14:30.230
charge of this and now we've boxed the stepping up and becoming the champion of the after the proposal and this has happened so this resolves this issue and i would expect him uh to make the necessary updates and and consider any issues that that have been brought

47
00:14:28.160 --> 00:14:49.990
up so this could have been without very quickly um also i think it's it's it's fine that gatorade mentioned a few issues that um that he found that indicated that his ecb really didn't didn't advance like there were no changes and there were issues that needed to be addressed so

48
00:14:48.000 --> 00:15:10.470
all that order was fine i don't think it was it was necessary to go to to talk for for more than half an hour about every little detail that that was wrong we could have been it would have been sufficient to mention of the first three but the three most important ones basically and then it would already be clear

49
00:15:07.680 --> 00:15:28.790
um so that's that can be improved in the future and yeah so but i think i think that that issue is has now been resolved and now we have to see what what worked us and i'll continue the discussion based on that that is very interesting what you said about

50
00:15:27.519 --> 00:15:50.389
the ecip being stale or not because it didn't have any changes or work done um i i the ecip 1000 that sets the rules for the ecip process was written originally the core was written originally by look look dash

51
00:15:46.480 --> 00:16:06.949
of bitcoin for for the vip process then uh way tang used it as a model and in a great extent is a copy of the vip process um for the ecib process and then later

52
00:16:03.199 --> 00:16:23.749
like a couple of years later i um yeah most processes processed it and edited it and i added text also from the eip process from ethereum and we completed it as as it is now now and it has some flaws of course but but i

53
00:16:20.800 --> 00:16:43.430
don't think that the ecip 1000 says just because the document on github has not been changed from for three years then and then it can be moved to reject it i think that's that's a very naive interpretation of the text i think that ecip

54
00:16:39.360 --> 00:17:00.550
1049 is the most important issue in ethereum classic it's the most contentious and debated issue in the community from miners to mining pools to core community members investors everybody the core developers everybody is giving their opinion where i

55
00:16:59.120 --> 00:17:21.110
think it has a very significant share here in the discord every day well shot three and every new investor always asked about shot three and what's going on there not only that but technically it has been tested worked on the test nets etc so that's all indication that this ecip

56
00:17:17.039 --> 00:17:37.750
1049 is clearly not uh stale or dead or inactive or anything like that so to to see is to purely see the document on github that hasn't been changed for three years i think it's not enough uh of a consideration to consider it uh stale

57
00:17:37.760 --> 00:17:59.510
um so that that that's what i wanted to say yesterday but uh the editor moved directly to something else because i think that it was clear that he was going to lose his argument i think that's a very fair point and yeah it some of it did seem like trying to use the bureaucracy of ecip to have

58
00:17:57.200 --> 00:18:18.310
the process to um to try and achieve a certain goal uh and yeah obviously we've been discussing it for the last uh basically every call the topic of shar3 has come up so far so it's definitely not stale in the the community so um i

59
00:18:15.520 --> 00:18:36.470
would agree that this definition of of staleness especially development progress that's not not we're not even that doesn't have an immediate impact on the on the ecip um

60
00:18:36.480 --> 00:18:57.270
should also be considered but that will be basically a limitation that comes from from the etherp1000 and maybe maybe the hh should for measuring and progress that are not necessary necessarily the bonus that necessarily consist in changing

61
00:18:56.000 --> 00:19:17.110
the ecip and but the thing is that uh that this might it is might be other out of the out of the reach for for forgetfulness as the editor is basically bound by the by the existing rules he can't make up new ones and so i think it's fair

62
00:19:14.480 --> 00:19:36.230
that that report is up already for for reasons of due diligence and well maybe it was he found it convenient for other reasons too but essentially essentially he made the right call and we could resolve the problem i think that's that's the key issue it's much better to to waste the issue and then resolve

63
00:19:34.240 --> 00:19:54.470
it then then say yeah it's probably not only not a real issue so we do nothing and then in three years it's it's still stale and we still still have endless uh fights on on this card and and nothing ever really moves it's always i think it's great that now bob is

64
00:19:52.720 --> 00:20:14.149
taking care of this and the progress can can be made again yeah absolutely regardless of the um intent uh the fact that the call was made and it made progress i think it was a definitely beneficial and we should be thanking for everyone that contributed that you

65
00:20:11.440 --> 00:20:32.630
wanted to jump in there bro just uh just one wanted to say that i agree um with uh maybe not the way he he done it but uh the the way he called it out because anissip

66
00:20:28.960 --> 00:20:49.510
editor should have this right to and uh try to get things going in the in in some direction and making people who are responsible aware

67
00:20:49.520 --> 00:21:11.990
of the troubles that a proposal might have so this right is welcome in my opinion and should be kept cool well as a reminder um that whole conversation is available on the uh the uh youtube channel that uh bro kindly

68
00:21:09.520 --> 00:21:31.190
uploaded so you can find the link in the uh show notes before we move on to the next topic is there any other comment on the uh the call yesterday put together a consensual list for shatri i

69
00:21:28.640 --> 00:21:49.270
see that he is here maybe he wants to talk about it at the last call he didn't have time just taking care of my kids this morning but i do appreciate you thinking about the the tracker um

70
00:21:49.280 --> 00:22:11.190
i don't have uh too much to say about this morning but um if there's any questions or issues with it feel free to dm me and i'll make sure and update it accordingly i want to make sure it's as comprehensive and accurate as possible yeah thanks for putting that together it's it's an awesome initiative and very useful

71
00:22:08.640 --> 00:22:30.230
to to get like a barometer of what the community is thinking on that uh my my suggestion would be to potentially split it up into multiple uh or and against positions because it's uh it's not just like 400 sorry 104.9 that's

72
00:22:28.640 --> 00:22:50.310
in question really because some people should support sha3 but on a long term some people support it pre-merge and some people support it one way or the other and some people just against the whole thing so i think the the simple for against neutral metric is a little bit uh low resolution so it'd be interesting to see some uh

73
00:22:48.640 --> 00:23:09.110
i guess yeah split out into the different positions if possible yeah i totally found that as well through the the journey it was kind of a raiders the lost ark you know kind of historical dig through everything um going

74
00:23:07.679 --> 00:23:28.230
through all of the years of conversation there's a lot of dynamic to it and a lot of i don't know really interesting kind of insight from some really smart people that are no longer here but um you know some points that were brought up that aren't aren't discussed anymore so yeah i definitely think there is room to kind

75
00:23:25.840 --> 00:23:47.350
of expand it kind of maybe a pivot table type of um creation that could that could alternate showing different you could even aggregate it according to your time too yeah that'd be great and i i really like that you were able to link to the source material and the quotes that people

76
00:23:45.520 --> 00:24:07.909
have created at the various points in time that's super useful for uh for the record it will probably continue for many months uh the idea of getting opinions

77
00:24:04.400 --> 00:24:26.950
on this i don't know should should we have a channel dedicated for something like what it is punk did to to have a more clear view just just for this i was wondering if there might be some kind of discord bot that would allow us to

78
00:24:23.840 --> 00:24:43.909
do like straw polls and anyone could make a question and have people vote on it and collate those responses and also potentially comments i know we can do it with emojis but it'll be better if there's some like proper solution to that but i don't know if there's anything out there i

79
00:24:41.919 --> 00:25:02.710
saw something like like a voting system on github that can be implemented not sure how but i can take a look and see if we can have some sort of tool for this yeah

80
00:25:00.880 --> 00:25:21.909
consensus building in decentralized systems is very tricky but i guess we're on the frontier and that's what makes it exciting isn't it yep okay so unless there's anything else on yesterday's

81
00:25:19.600 --> 00:25:39.750
call we can uh go to the next breaking news okay so apparently uh someone's uh unmasked the dow hacker so um basically the reason ethereum classic exists is because of this guy who i'm not gonna name on this call and i

82
00:25:37.760 --> 00:25:58.710
don't know if it's confirmed or not but there's some fairly reputable people claiming they know who he is um i'm sure you can find the link in the show notes if you're more interested but uh it's pretty big news for um ethereum classic in a way because it kind of i guess uh bookends

83
00:25:57.279 --> 00:26:18.070
a certain chapter and a mystery if this is indeed the guy and it also brings up a new question as to what happens to those funds um i believe there's still a good amount of etc uh sitting in a wallet owned by uh this uh potential

84
00:26:16.000 --> 00:26:36.070
hacker and it'll be uh interesting to see what happens to that and if there's a pending case against them and how it's returned and yeah in a way as etc punk is saying in the chat the dow hacker is uh edc's founding father to some extent along with

85
00:26:32.320 --> 00:26:52.390
of course stefan tall the announcement was dropped by laura shin who has a new book uh wrote a forbes article about that it was also corroborated by um alex van der saan who uh is one of the the

86
00:26:50.480 --> 00:27:11.110
guys that was around at the time and is a pretty well respected member of the ethereum community can ask her to join us on a call and maybe share share some points about her

87
00:27:09.520 --> 00:27:29.909
findings that's a very good idea although yeah i mean we can always ask whether we are uh the kind of show slash discussion should be interested in who knows but uh it's definitely worth asking and it would definitely be an interesting conversation alternatively

88
00:27:26.559 --> 00:27:47.669
we could also ask uh afsa who was uh very close to the whole happenings around the dow and stuff so uh he could also shed some light on him but there's there's two things that could happen i guess with or several but uh one of the obvious things is that the funds will eventually

89
00:27:47.679 --> 00:28:09.029
be returned to the to someone most likely the dow token holders who are the rightful owners of the etc ironically the identifying of this dow hacker is further proof that the hard fork on ethereum was completely unnecessary because i mean even without the incentive

90
00:28:06.080 --> 00:28:26.789
of all of that fun still being in earth he still got caught so if only this had been without hard fork it's almost guaranteed they would have been caught within a couple years and that means the hard fork was entirely unnecessary so uh code is law prevails that is a good point because um at the time

91
00:28:26.799 --> 00:28:47.909
in 2016 one of the arguments is okay if the hacker stole money then you should use traditional systems like the legal system the fbi interpol whatever to look for but don't go this long don't change don't change the blockchain so this this in a way confirms

92
00:28:46.159 --> 00:29:08.070
that that argument was right in the long run and also the argument is also confirmed with the bit pin x hack now that they got the couple who who i don't know if they stole the money or they were laundering the money uh so there's many cases where you can catch the bad guys uh on the social layer

93
00:29:06.159 --> 00:29:27.350
and not by um reorganizing the chain manually but i have a question about this so if the hacker was um caught moving the money does does that mean that the hacker doesn't own the 3.6 million in that account anymore or he just moved a little amount of money

94
00:29:25.360 --> 00:29:45.430
and he was caught because of that yeah i believe he moved uh 50 bitcoin so the vast majority is still sitting in the yeah oh my god that's bad luck bad luck or bad opsec or potentially any number of other things maybe he was framed

95
00:29:42.720 --> 00:30:05.430
um who knows right until there's an actual court case we can't really make judgment yeah and i should note that there was also a different article on bloomberg which some some may suggest is more reliable than forbes but they apparently

96
00:30:02.320 --> 00:30:23.510
unmasked a different guy so i don't think it's fully confirmed yet although this uh tweet from alex van der sand is uh pretty convincing for me at least i i don't think he would put his reputation on the line if he wasn't pretty confident and

97
00:30:20.960 --> 00:30:41.350
on the topic of uh arguments about code is law unless we are let me uh tie up this section first if there's anyone that has any other comments on the dow hacker um please uh jump in as

98
00:30:38.880 --> 00:30:59.269
uh as donald just mentioned there was um this idea of cody's law being off chain sorry cody's law is a thing that only exists in the contract layer and off chain traditional law exists and the idea of code is law is not to necessarily get rid of existing laws it's

99
00:30:57.440 --> 00:31:19.909
just an additional jurisdiction a virtual jurisdiction that can exist over and above the geographical legal jurisdictions that exist today and this is one of the arguments that uh i have put forward in the new website that has literally just landed so if you visit ethereumclassic.org you will

100
00:31:16.080 --> 00:31:40.149
now see a new website that uh was released in the last uh hour so please check it out and let me know what you think about that there is a whole new section in there called wise classic which covers uh a bunch of topics which i'm just gonna briefly run down now

101
00:31:34.720 --> 00:31:56.950
in a second new section is called y classic and the idea is um uh for people that are not familiar with the theorem classic it's kind of an introduction to why the classic is a thing and it starts off about talking about code is law and the potential future

102
00:31:54.640 --> 00:32:15.990
that that enables and this whole idea of a new way of essentially unlocking these new virtual jurisdictions where people can interact voluntarily and uh enter into contractual agreements on chain which was the original ethereum vision and we point out that code is law as was mentioned

103
00:32:13.760 --> 00:32:35.590
is something that exists over above these places and it also exists only on chains that follow the idea of build unstoppable applications because if you have stoppable applications you don't really have code is law because it's uh stoppable and then you're just relying on

104
00:32:32.640 --> 00:32:52.870
the old jurisdictions once again so the general concept is that blockchains are only valuable when you have code is law and unfortunately um ethereum classic's younger albeit waiter sister sibling ethereum uh does not respect kohler's law in fact they explicitly

105
00:32:50.480 --> 00:33:10.950
disavowed cody's law when they did the dow hard fork which is also delved into in detail in a section called genesis so the genesis section is pretty in-depth about what happened during the dow and wraps things up with some ideas about a

106
00:33:09.440 --> 00:33:29.909
kind of philosophical problem that ethereum mainnet now sits in in that its main value proposition is as a blockchain should be immutability unstoppability and in fact the ethereum slogan was built on stoppable applications but having stopped one of the first applications that got big it's

107
00:33:27.760 --> 00:33:48.230
kind of in this double bind where its past actions contradict its purported value proposition so ethereum classic is there to fill the void but in order to achieve that ethereum classic needs to maintain this idea of decentralism or decentralization

108
00:33:44.640 --> 00:34:06.310
maximalism and that is the idea that decentralization is achieved as much as possible in all layers of the social political technological stack and that means making sure both the organizational structure as well as the protocol itself is decentralized so that means

109
00:34:03.840 --> 00:34:27.190
you can't have a foundation for example an ethereum classic doesn't just like bitcoin and by not having those centralized points of value it can survive long term because basically if the project relies on a foundation the project can only exist as long as that foundation does and this philosophy can basically be summarized

110
00:34:23.760 --> 00:34:44.550
with the idea of f equals btc equals etc you take the philosophy of bitcoin and the technology of ethereum and you put them together and you get ethereum classic and two of the main examples of this are the sound monetary policy of ethereum sorry

111
00:34:41.839 --> 00:35:01.910
of bitcoin applied to ethereum in the uh fixed emission curve that ethereum classic has such that there is no chance of runaway inflation like there is on uh there are main net which does not have a fixed supply especially in the case of proof of stake transitions

112
00:34:58.800 --> 00:35:19.510
which will incentivize inflation because of various different reasons that i also get into in a section called proof of work so i encourage everyone to take a look at the new website and delve in and if you have any comments or suggestions feel free to reach out make a pull request or just dm me

113
00:35:17.040 --> 00:35:39.030
in the discord sorry when is the new website going to be public or available it is live now oh great feedback

114
00:35:37.599 --> 00:35:58.630
and uh suggestions during the process in terms of next steps for the website um now that we have like this public version um on the horizon we're going to be looking towards a few things one of which is internationalization so we're going to be trying to get all

115
00:35:56.640 --> 00:36:18.710
of the content translated into as many different languages as possible targeting like the most spoken languages first like chinese and spanish but any language of course is like encouraged to submit translations to but we will be setting up a system that makes it super easy to contribute translations

116
00:36:15.920 --> 00:36:37.589
using a third-party translation service called crowdin which is uh it's basically an interface that allows you to easily add translations we're also hoping to be encouraging contributions in the form of videos and adding articles and maybe blog posts by creating

117
00:36:35.760 --> 00:36:56.069
a series of tutorial videos of how to make a pull request onto the website such that it's super easy for third parties to add their youtube videos and new applications and potentially in the future if there's a pool available then we could potentially create

118
00:36:53.760 --> 00:37:15.030
a lottery system for rewarding a certain amount of etc every month to anyone that contributes ideas and can really improve the

119
00:37:12.720 --> 00:37:34.950
image for for edc the site looks great as i said before i'll try to provide a proper feedback and review and see if we can make it uh even better that'll be awesome and

120
00:37:32.480 --> 00:37:53.589
uh yeah if for anyone listening has any suggestions that's how we make the world a better place by uh improving it great thanks everyone for your efforts and updating the website is trying to find uh someone

121
00:37:50.720 --> 00:38:12.550
to help make some videos of the that whole section so each each different section would have its own like video explainer to make it easy to digest for the more visual learners on video sounds good i guess we we just need a voiceover

122
00:38:10.720 --> 00:38:31.910
first yep to sort of explore before we go into open discussion is uh the idea of a conference for edc either this year or next year um as

123
00:38:29.599 --> 00:38:49.829
in a physical real world conference that we can go to and shake hands and you know see each other face to face because it's been a while since one of those has happened especially because of uh recent travel restrictions so um i do wonder if anyone has any ideas of where a good place to host something like that would be um

124
00:38:49.839 --> 00:39:09.990
yeah and uh when maybe this year maybe next year another event it might help atta abroad attendance if it's associated with another blockchain event that that's a great idea i hadn't thought of that but

125
00:39:07.520 --> 00:39:32.230
um story let me let me look at some of the shows coming up towards the end of the year early next year does the group have a preferences to i take it united states or asia's the preference i'm guessing based on some of the names i see on the list easy

126
00:39:28.720 --> 00:39:49.510
then i think uh it's a good option okay um give me let me let me take a look i'll send is there a group i guess i'll just post this in the community calls and you know just say here's some of the shows i found cool thanks for that i i noticed also that

127
00:39:47.520 --> 00:40:10.630
omni edges posted that it'll be a good idea to do a hackathon as well yeah yeah especially if there's a bunch of um other if there's either i don't know would it would it be uh suitable to tag an etc conference onto an ethereum conference

128
00:40:07.359 --> 00:40:27.829
i think that's probably as bob that one he'll have lots of stories to tell you right or maybe it would be uh is is ethereum classic more closely aligned with bitcoin i'm not sure i guess technological wise uh edc is close to ethereum i

129
00:40:24.960 --> 00:40:46.470
think um to target with uh bitcoin miami for example which i think is in june july is a better alignment than to target with ethereum going to be inflammatory if we tag it to uh to ethereum um bitcoin miami donald this year

130
00:40:43.359 --> 00:41:04.309
is april so um it's too early that's too early for for us to get some together so we're probably looking at next year um the other idea story is that we can if you want to do a hackathon um there's a bunch of universities that are maybe interested and uh you know certainly they can contribute

131
00:41:02.240 --> 00:41:23.750
students and stuff to work on a hackathon as well i know that a couple of the universes are dying to get in the blockchain or expand their blockchain presence yeah for sure and uh if there's if there's some kind of bounty involved or actually deploying something to etc maybe it could even be just a port-a-thon

132
00:41:21.359 --> 00:41:42.710
as opposed to a like necessarily because you know a lot of the innovation is already happening on ethereum so to do a ethereum classic specific technology event i don't know if there's anything there's like a a unique thing that you could focus on apart from interoperability stuff but uh just the idea

133
00:41:40.480 --> 00:42:00.550
of getting stuff deployed on serum classic is exciting to me okay i think if we pickle okay so we can do it a couple ways right we can try and tailor target some universities and whatnot or we can pick a location and then target the university right or it could be uh for the hackathon it could be a virtual one right

134
00:42:00.560 --> 00:42:23.349
true true i i guess i was just thinking of um in presence since we talked about uh conference getting together yes it's much better to do it like that anyway uh spent too much time online yup agreed alliance

135
00:42:20.240 --> 00:42:41.349
would would be definitely more amicable in terms of tagging along and probably a lot more interesting yeah i i didn't say it from the the most amicable or non-amicable uh point of view but but because um i

136
00:42:39.760 --> 00:43:02.230
think etc philosophically philosophically is much more aligned with bitcoin [Music] so i thought it was in terms of marketing an image to target to bitcoin i think it's more aligned in that sense yeah i agree i think the um yeah

137
00:42:59.200 --> 00:43:21.190
as you say so we can we could aim to do it in the next bitcoin miami for 2023 because a conference costs a lot of money so we have to get the money from somewhere also i mean there's multiple ways to do a conference i suppose um it

138
00:43:18.960 --> 00:43:40.150
could just be like a satellite event where it's at a local pub or something i don't think it has to be on the same level as uh vancouver for the summit to take place in in europe

139
00:43:38.079 --> 00:43:59.270
it's uh for me for example it's very hard to get a visa or for united states yeah that is a good point and travel we want to make it as accessible as possible both in terms of visas and like entry rules regarding other things in terms

140
00:43:58.000 --> 00:44:18.710
of travel restrictions el salvador that's a good idea on the edge just mentioned if there are any conferences in el salvador that might be a very good option i'm fairly confident they have pretty relaxed entry restrictions how is that in terms of visa situation bro

141
00:44:18.720 --> 00:44:40.150
well i wouldn't go there because it has one of the highest crime rates on the planet bitcoin as legal tender yes

142
00:44:35.680 --> 00:44:56.630
of course etc that we know of that have you know located in certain areas they might help sponsor or you know co-host or or facilitate

143
00:44:54.240 --> 00:45:16.870
in some form or fashion well the dow hackers based in singapore if that helps hello yeah i'm not i'm not aware of any i mean apart from barry i guess but uh he's the only public etc well i'm aware of okay let me bounce the idea by mike collier

144
00:45:14.000 --> 00:45:35.109
he's with with um he's with uh dcgf global not global foundries the the foundry's arm of dcg nice one thanks so uh as always we're gonna open the floor

145
00:45:33.680 --> 00:45:55.589
up to open discussion if anyone has anything they wanted to mention um please go ahead hybrid so uh you know what epic did initially was to position the hybrid as an alternative to 1049.

146
00:45:52.000 --> 00:46:07.990
i think that you know you saw it was to facilitate discussion and as a platform to show what could happen in mining and to present the facts we've always positioned it as an alternative to 1049.

147
00:46:05.440 --> 00:46:27.349
i think just based on the feedback over the last couple of weeks that you know it is more difficult to do and we'll wait to file the ecp ecip if it's warranted but for now i think just consider on hold and that was a topic discussion okay

148
00:46:25.119 --> 00:46:47.910
that's fair enough and i personally believe that uh that whole topic is worthy of wider discussion because uh as mentioned on the call i think that regardless of what happens even if we do move to show three there might be a point in the future where char four is needed so having

149
00:46:45.040 --> 00:47:06.390
a plan of action before the next algo shift is going to be useful regardless of what happens so let's have the conversation in the future okay agreed uh yeah hello who's this yeah i'm just uh i just had a question about bitcoin details

150
00:47:02.720 --> 00:47:17.589
about that just saw it on the corner of like it's like the ip uh discussion i think it's like 1096.

151
00:47:17.599 --> 00:47:34.230
does anyone want to comment on that i'm not familiar with that particular ecip i'm a i just noticed this one today like i never seen this one before sorry could you repeat the number i'll just check it out quickly uh 1096.

152
00:47:34.240 --> 00:47:55.030
i have no i never we have a channel on discord for this it's ecib dash 1096 dash bitcoin dash merged mining and it's been basically dormant for one and a half years at least it's withdrawn

153
00:47:55.040 --> 00:48:16.549
it has been withdrawn so riggy this is the situation the in in 2020 in august there were 51 attacks on etc and the person who wrote this uh ecib 1096 sergio lerner he came to uh

154
00:48:13.359 --> 00:48:33.589
ethereum classic to propose uh two things one was this um to do merge mining with with bitcoin and then he did other other proposals i think he participated in debates of mess etcetera but basically what that is is to

155
00:48:30.400 --> 00:48:51.349
eliminate independent mining and use the bitcoin miners to produce the blocks for etc so the the bitcoin miners would produce the the the blocks for bitcoin but for easier hashes or hashes that need a little bit of work some of those could be can be used to

156
00:48:49.520 --> 00:49:09.750
produce blocks for or um etc um so you use the same hashing power of bitcoin but to also produce blocks for for epc that would eliminate 100 of the miner base that is dedicated to to

157
00:49:06.319 --> 00:49:26.390
edc and some i think that litecoin and dogecoin have merged mining where they use the same base of miners and the network rsk which is smart contracts on bitcoin their blocks are also produced by by

158
00:49:23.280 --> 00:49:44.710
the bitcoin miner base so it's merged mining in in ethereum classic there's no plans this was withdrawn it was rejected at the time in terms of debate so there's no plans for merge mining in it here in classic sergio is from rsk right he works for rsk rootstock yes

159
00:49:44.720 --> 00:50:06.710
yeah that's an interesting project to yourself sorry if it's withdrawn then i guess this ends uh cosmo quark's question on the channel uh where he asks i'm assuming this is no longer needed that question was in october nobody answered um so it seems that we can remove the channel then

160
00:50:04.000 --> 00:50:25.990
right if the ecib is it has been withdrawn anyway yeah i think some mods can uh clean that up all right yeah i just had a question because i sure feel rejected or not but uh thank you no thank you actually um uh sergio and or someone from rsk might be another interesting

161
00:50:24.000 --> 00:50:44.870
guest to have on given that uh rootstock is a basically sort of positioning itself similar to edc but uh obviously with much more of a dependence on bitcoin and less uh decentralized because currently rootstock relies on a a

162
00:50:42.319 --> 00:51:03.829
bridge basically rootstock is an ethereum virtual machine chain that uses bitcoin as its underlying currency and that's pegged using a bridge and is merge mined with bitcoin so it's an interesting approach to adding smart contract capability to bitcoin

163
00:51:00.400 --> 00:51:20.630
but uh it's not currently decentralized really compatibility

164
00:51:17.119 --> 00:51:38.069
uh i believe that ethereum two is going to be largely backwards compatible so that all the contracts that have deployed already will still operate and if that's the case then in terms of the contracts deployed to ethereum um mainnet sorry ethereum foundation chain they

165
00:51:36.640 --> 00:51:59.670
are likely to remain compatible with the theorem classic but uh obviously it's difficult to tell what they're planning long term and whether they're going to break that compatibility or require some weird new contract system to deal with things like sharding so there's no guarantee compatibility will be maintained indefinitely but i think for the foreseeable

166
00:51:56.160 --> 00:52:16.309
future it will remain there's something called the evm standard ethereum virtual machine standard and there's a group of blockchains that all use the evm standard one of course is ethereum which is the original one and the one who invented it and

167
00:52:14.000 --> 00:52:35.190
the theorem classic and then there's other approval stake blockchains that use the evm standard and so all that group of blockchains should continue to use um the evm standard because when you are within the standard just like

168
00:52:31.520 --> 00:52:51.990
when when original equipment manufacturers build for windows or form or or for other or for linux uh you have to be within the standard and follow the standard and follow the lead of the standard uh it's going to be unlikely

169
00:52:49.040 --> 00:53:10.390
that etc ethereum and the other evm chains are not going to be compatible i would say because that's the normal behavior of these technological systems that have network index um so i would say in terms of likelihood uh etc today is 100 compatible in

170
00:53:07.839 --> 00:53:28.710
the sense that it is the identical technology as ethereum and it is going to continue to be compatible because any change any future changes of the evm standard is very likely going to be followed by all edm chains i think i think that's uh pretty much correct with

171
00:53:25.680 --> 00:53:47.829
a small caveat and that is that there's already like small divergences um that are like small edge cases that might eventually grow into larger edge cases whereby these quote-unquote standard evms are like not compatible i mean for

172
00:53:45.680 --> 00:54:05.750
example i believe the recent mystique hard fork because they one of the op codes added to london was not integrated so any contract that uses that opcode is i believe currently not able to be deployed on etc but because it's a new op code that doesn't no

173
00:54:04.240 --> 00:54:25.750
one's written a contract for it yet so uh i might not be fully accurate with that but that is a potential place that things can go away and this is one of the reasons that i believe that uh version inc evm versioning is a really important thing for etc to implement as soon as possible really not

174
00:54:23.920 --> 00:54:45.030
just for that reason in terms of compatibility but also making future hard forks easier and it's also one of the completely non-contentious only upside kind of hard forks that the whole community can get around so if uh if it wasn't for the show 3 debate uh i would hope that we would be spending a lot more time on these kind of

175
00:54:42.559 --> 00:55:02.950
hard forks that can get like absolute consensus that is a good point because because they're going to be some underlying technological differences under the hood for example etc is going to stay with proof of work and not change the monetary policy or the fee model and ethereum already changed those things

176
00:55:01.760 --> 00:55:25.270
and they're going to migrate it's going to migrate to google stake then yes some op codes may be not compatible so that makes them a little bit different for a developer who wants to code solidity it's not going to be exactly the same on one chain and the other questions

177
00:55:23.200 --> 00:55:43.829
from uh participants the floor is open uh if he will go through with that course about blockchain um

178
00:55:39.680 --> 00:56:01.190
yes i am preparing the powerpoint so i do a call like this one sharing my screen and i'll do the course um i was i was looking at the dates i was thinking of someday next week not tuesday so it doesn't overlap with this

179
00:55:58.480 --> 00:56:20.069
call and and the course is two hours and i'm going to talk from the history of the blockchain first technologies in the late 70s to ethereum classic today and its fundamentals etc so i'm going to post it on here on discord

180
00:56:16.400 --> 00:56:38.950
uh whenever i set the date or for that course i also i was thinking that these courses may may be a great addition to the website for people who are interested in learning about blockchain and doing

181
00:56:35.680 --> 00:56:56.150
that on ethereum classic maybe the gateway for them absolutely and we i it'd be awesome to have your entire back catalogue on there donald if uh if you're happy with adding those videos maybe if you want to use a hundred percent

182
00:56:54.319 --> 00:57:14.710
of the articles of the hearing classic eater plan and the videos of etherplan on my channel please just use them you have full authorization to use them for the website so if you want to create a special section or use it for whatever use case you want you have my full authorization

183
00:57:14.720 --> 00:57:35.589
that's very kind of you don't know thank you regarding the the course and why not then it's going to be recorded so thank you for telling me that so i'm not going to uh and curse to people when when we're recording it i'm going to make it more civilized then i

184
00:57:32.559 --> 00:57:52.710
want to see how you got the time of the course soon um and let everybody know and i'm okay recording it and posting it on on the website as well everything i do that is if you're in classic content please use it

185
00:57:51.440 --> 00:58:11.510
at will um now i have to go guys uh i have another call at work so thank you very much estora and bro brother for organizing this thank you everybody else for participating goodbye cheers take care bye bye

186
00:58:17.760 --> 00:58:27.720
on this week we will see you again next tuesday at the same time at the same place have a good week take care bye
```
