---
number: 44
description: ETC Community Call 044 — ECIP Discussions and Year-End Review
date: 2025-12-19
time: 1500 UTC
location: Zoom
youtube: T0ikGv44PAE
joinLink: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/84557902963
hosts:
  - Community Member Istora
greenRoom:
  time: 1400 UTC
  location: "ETC Discord #dev-meeting"
  joinLink: https://ethereumclassic.org/discord
---

## Context

This document is a raw archival record of a community discussion.

It is provided for historical reference only and does **not** represent
decisions, consensus, endorsements, timelines, or official positions of
the Ethereum Classic network.

Attendance was voluntary. Statements reflect individual participant
opinions expressed during the call.

The presence or absence of agreement during the call does **not** imply
network-level consensus or dispute.

References to ECIPs, pull requests, timelines, or future work during the
call do **not** imply acceptance, merge status, implementation readiness,
or binding commitments.

Readers are encouraged to consult the recording directly.

---

## Topics Listed at Start of Call

- Updates on the Ethereum Classic community calls website
- Discussion of ECIP pull requests and editor workflow
- Open questions related to the Olympia upgrade framework
- Exploratory discussion of EIP-1559–style fee mechanisms and smoothing
- Editorial considerations for EthereumClassic.org and community content
- General year-end discussion and forward-looking ideas

---

## Call 044 — Transcript

[00:00:00] Hey, so hello and welcome to Athereum
[00:00:01] Classic community call number 44. Today
[00:00:03] is Friday, December 19th, 2025.
[00:00:06] This community call is an open voice
[00:00:08] chat discussion about Ethereum Classic.
[00:00:10] Everyone is welcome. Please be excellent
[00:00:12] to each other. The call will be
[00:00:14] published on YouTube and if you're
[00:00:17] interested, you can join the call uh 1
[00:00:19] hour before in the green room and this
[00:00:22] is a pre-cool hangout that will not be
[00:00:23] recorded. You can find us in the Discord
[00:00:25] voice channels.
[00:00:27] This week we have an announcement to
[00:00:29] make which is a new community calls
[00:00:31] website which you can find at
[00:00:32] cc.etherumlassic.org.
[00:00:34] On this website you can browse all the
[00:00:36] past episodes. You can trans you can
[00:00:38] subscribe to the calendar or RSS feed to
[00:00:40] never miss a call. It has a time it has
[00:00:42] a time zone converter so you can uh
[00:00:46] ensure that you're arriving at the right
[00:00:47] time and you can find a AI summaries of
[00:00:50] all the calls and there'll be more
[00:00:52] features to come.
[00:00:54] So, uh, without further ado, let's dive
[00:00:57] in. Um, there are three topics. Oh, I
[00:01:01] see Diego has his hand up. Would you
[00:01:03] like to chat or was that just a, uh, a
[00:01:06] clap?
[00:01:07] >> Yeah, I know it was just a clap for your
[00:01:09] great work on on the website.
[00:01:12] >> Okay. Thanks. Thanks, Diego. Yeah. Um,
[00:01:14] it was made with the help of Claude Code
[00:01:16] CLI. So, I'd like to thank all the uh
[00:01:21] all the LLM producers out there that
[00:01:23] helped. Um so there's three topics that
[00:01:28] we can dive into to today and there's no
[00:01:30] particular order but
[00:01:34] basically they are we have uh basically
[00:01:38] an approval deadlock on some uh merges
[00:01:41] happening on the various Ethereum
[00:01:42] classic repos that we could dive into
[00:01:45] and try and sort out while we're on this
[00:01:47] call. There's some remaining questions
[00:01:50] about Olympia that were brought up in
[00:01:51] the last call that I was hoping if um
[00:01:54] some of the authors might be able to
[00:01:56] address this this call. And then
[00:01:58] finally, some potential
[00:02:01] uh discussion about editorial guidelines
[00:02:03] about Ethereum classic.org and this new
[00:02:07] Athereum classic community website. So,
[00:02:11] um,
[00:02:13] is there anyone uh on the call that
[00:02:15] would like to jump in on any other topic
[00:02:18] or any particular topic that I've
[00:02:20] brought up?
[00:02:28] Okay. So, in that case, I think we
[00:02:31] should just jump into the the first
[00:02:34] approval deadlock issue. And I'm
[00:02:37] referring particularly to a comment made
[00:02:39] by Kodi
[00:02:41] about trying to sort out this merge for
[00:02:44] ECIP 1120
[00:02:47] which was authored by me and Diego and
[00:02:49] submitted for a pull request on the
[00:02:53] ECIP's repo about 2 weeks ago and has
[00:02:55] since been basically in
[00:02:59] approval purgatory for the last two
[00:03:02] weeks trying to appease one of the uh
[00:03:06] ECIP maintainers and it seems Cody that
[00:03:10] this is okay with you. Um do you have
[00:03:14] any ideas on what we can do in terms of
[00:03:16] next steps to get this dismerged?
[00:03:20] >> Yeah, I think for next steps uh updating
[00:03:24] the editors in the ECIP repos probably
[00:03:28] the next step. I mean, the process is
[00:03:33] intended to
[00:03:35] get as much information out in front of
[00:03:36] people as possible so they can read and
[00:03:39] think and debate about it. I mean,
[00:03:41] filibustering it doesn't really help
[00:03:44] anyone. So, uh, and we don't I think
[00:03:48] Meow Bits is still the other maintainer
[00:03:50] or editor, whatever the role is in the
[00:03:53] ECIP, so we need to refresh those
[00:03:55] anyway.
[00:03:58] >> Okay. I saw that you um recently made a
[00:04:02] pull request to update that list of
[00:04:04] editors and uh I approved and merged
[00:04:07] that one. So this would be rotate the
[00:04:10] inactive editors. This is PR549
[00:04:14] and I think you switched me out bits and
[00:04:17] added Diego to the list of maintainers.
[00:04:21] Is that something that's been reflected
[00:04:22] in the uh the teams now as well or is
[00:04:26] that just on the the ECIP?
[00:04:29] It's a good question. Let me check.
[00:04:41] >> Will would you mind uh sharing the the
[00:04:43] link to this PR in the in the chat?
[00:04:47] >> Yep, no problem. I'll send it through in
[00:04:50] just a sec. I got it. I'm sending it.
[00:04:53] >> Thank you.
[00:05:09] >> Oh, no. I meant uh the other one, the
[00:05:11] the one adding me as an editor or the
[00:05:14] other one that you were just mentioning.
[00:05:22] Let's see.
[00:05:29] All right. I will share that in just a
[00:05:32] second.
[00:05:37] It's number 594.
[00:05:40] Sorry, 549.
[00:05:43] And I'll paste this in the chat.
[00:05:48] Okay. Do you see that?
[00:05:52] >> Yeah. Thank you.
[00:06:00] >> Yeah. So just for the record, I want to
[00:06:04] make sure I'm not going insane and that
[00:06:06] my interpretation of the ECIP
[00:06:09] categorization is indeed like correct in
[00:06:14] that like standard track/core
[00:06:17] is appropriate for ECIP 1120
[00:06:23] as far as I can tell.
[00:06:27] Right.
[00:06:34] Yeah, I agree with that.
[00:06:37] Cool.
[00:06:39] I think if we have like majority
[00:06:43] support to merge this then I
[00:06:46] and there's no
[00:06:48] I mean Chris has been invited to the
[00:06:50] call and I was hoping he'd join to um to
[00:06:53] get his
[00:06:56] interpretation um analyzed I guess but
[00:06:59] uh he's not here at the moment but I
[00:07:01] think like with with three out of four
[00:07:03] of the maintainers supporting this we
[00:07:06] can go ahead and merge it at this stage
[00:07:08] even if it means
[00:07:09] uh dismissing the the stale review.
[00:07:16] If anyone is against that then please
[00:07:18] let me know.
[00:07:28] Okay. So I think that 1120 can go ahead
[00:07:31] and be merged. There's also um a kind of
[00:07:36] side issue with the ECIP
[00:07:41] WIP status, work in progress status,
[00:07:44] which in ECIP 1000 is listed as like
[00:07:48] optional. So
[00:07:51] any ECIP that is going to be updated in
[00:07:54] the future could be like early stage
[00:07:56] listed as work in progress. And it seems
[00:07:59] that uh Chris was suggesting to use this
[00:08:03] status at some point for 1120 and I was
[00:08:05] okay with that. But it seems like the
[00:08:08] there's an ECIP validator um Ruby gem
[00:08:12] which is an external dependency on the
[00:08:14] ECIP's repo. It's maintained by Meow
[00:08:17] Bits and it doesn't support WIP. So any
[00:08:20] status of WIP was just failing the build
[00:08:24] and for that reason it was causing a bit
[00:08:25] of confusion.
[00:08:27] I have another open pull request that
[00:08:30] changes the logic so that it's no longer
[00:08:33] depending on an external gem and it's
[00:08:36] running that validation locally within
[00:08:37] the ECIP repo. So that's another um pull
[00:08:43] request that I would request review from
[00:08:47] maintainers.
[00:08:49] So this would allow us to manage all the
[00:08:51] validation locally without relying on
[00:08:52] that outdated um Ruby gem in the
[00:08:56] external library.
[00:08:58] Makes sense. What's the difference in
[00:09:00] work in progress and draft? Is draft
[00:09:03] more complete than work in progress?
[00:09:07] >> Yeah. So the only mention of WIP on
[00:09:11] W on EIP 1000 is that draft ECIPs may be
[00:09:15] in very early stage may be entered as
[00:09:18] WIP which means they're a work in
[00:09:20] progress. That's the only thing that it
[00:09:22] mentioned. So
[00:09:25] it it's probably the case that the WIP
[00:09:27] as a status wasn't part of the original
[00:09:30] assumption and then this WIP clause got
[00:09:33] added in at some point but didn't update
[00:09:35] the validator.
[00:09:38] And the workaround so far has just been
[00:09:40] to prefix everything with WIP in the
[00:09:42] title.
[00:09:45] So
[00:09:48] >> that's one option, but I think it would
[00:09:50] be nicer to just actually have a WIP
[00:09:52] status.
[00:09:53] >> Yeah, having it internal and being able
[00:09:55] to control it's definitely the preferred
[00:09:57] I think.
[00:09:59] >> Yep. So that pull request I made, I'm
[00:10:03] not a Ruby guy and it's it's co-authored
[00:10:07] by AI agents. It seems to work and I've
[00:10:10] tested it, but if someone is familiar
[00:10:13] with Ruby and can sananity check this,
[00:10:15] it seems to be fine. But it would be
[00:10:18] nice if someone could do that before we
[00:10:19] merge it.
[00:10:30] >> Cool.
[00:10:33] Diego has also you should have a invite
[00:10:35] now for UCIP editors team. Awesome.
[00:10:40] Thank you.
[00:10:47] Cool. So,
[00:10:51] yeah. And if Diego, you could approve
[00:10:54] 120, that would also
[00:10:56] >> for the record help.
[00:10:58] >> I will reference this conversation for
[00:11:01] merging. Um
[00:11:04] but yeah that would be that would be
[00:11:05] useful to have on the uh the repo
[00:11:08] itself.
[00:11:10] >> Yeah. Um are you going to change the
[00:11:12] status to work in progress or we will
[00:11:14] keep it in draft?
[00:11:19] This links nicely with the next item on
[00:11:22] the agenda which is
[00:11:25] um I also made a pull request to fix the
[00:11:28] Olympia ECIP's categorization and this
[00:11:31] brings those Olympia ECIPs in line with
[00:11:35] the same
[00:11:37] uh interpretation
[00:11:39] i.e. standard track core because they do
[00:11:42] implement um
[00:11:45] hard forks. So I was assuming that like
[00:11:47] these are not really meta ECIPs because
[00:11:49] they're going to be changing the
[00:11:50] protocol. So and they currently are
[00:11:54] using the WIP
[00:11:56] prefix as a workaround um adding to
[00:12:01] Olympia. So, I understand it's a bit
[00:12:03] cheeky, but I wanted to kind of align
[00:12:06] both 1120 and Olympia in what I believe
[00:12:10] to be similar statuses given the fact
[00:12:13] that in 1120 the like the parameters
[00:12:19] that are unfaled are also unfalized in
[00:12:23] Olympia in 11-11.
[00:12:26] So I feel like they're kind of they both
[00:12:29] require the same levels of additional
[00:12:32] research and if one is
[00:12:35] WIP then so should the other probably.
[00:12:38] So I'm fine with
[00:12:41] either WIP or draft. Um
[00:12:45] to be honest, I think
[00:12:48] because these parameters like there's no
[00:12:51] significant change to either of these
[00:12:53] ECIPs other than finalizing those
[00:12:55] parameters based on client testing. So I
[00:12:57] don't
[00:12:58] >> necessarily think they need to be WIP
[00:13:01] because they're not going to change too
[00:13:02] much. So I'm happy having both of these
[00:13:04] as draft.
[00:13:06] Um but I do think the standards track
[00:13:09] should be updated. Sorry. The type
[00:13:11] should be updated to standard track on
[00:13:12] Olympia at least for 111 and 1112.
[00:13:18] So I'm happy to update my branch to
[00:13:20] remove the WIP and merge both as draft
[00:13:25] but I'm open.
[00:13:28] >> I don't have any objection to it.
[00:13:32] >> Cool. In that case, I'll remove the WIP
[00:13:36] prefix from the fixed Olympia ECIP's
[00:13:38] categorization PR. And I think then that
[00:13:42] the current 11 20 can be merged as is as
[00:13:47] a draft.
[00:13:56] >> Uh what about 1121? I submitted a PR for
[00:14:00] that one too. This is uh kind of the
[00:14:02] omnibus of everything that we've missed
[00:14:04] >> as well along the way
[00:14:06] >> cuz
[00:14:07] >> yeah this was
[00:14:08] >> also in the agenda and
[00:14:11] I so
[00:14:16] whatever the next branch whatever the
[00:14:17] next uh hard hawk is called I'm totally
[00:14:20] fine with with whatever we come up with.
[00:14:23] My only concern is that Olympia has
[00:14:25] already kind of been promoted as this
[00:14:28] treasury. So, I just wanted to be extra
[00:14:32] careful about
[00:14:34] how it's interpreted by people outside
[00:14:36] the ECIP process. And if we're adamant
[00:14:41] that Olympia is the next name, I'm
[00:14:43] totally fine with going with it. I just
[00:14:46] I think it's really important that like
[00:14:48] the distinction is made between Olympia
[00:14:51] the Treasury and Olympia the hard fork
[00:14:53] that might have other ECIPs as part of
[00:14:55] it. And that was the only thing that I
[00:14:57] think we need to like discuss and
[00:15:00] properly signal to people outside the
[00:15:02] ECIP process because I know a lot of
[00:15:04] people in the Discord are like no
[00:15:06] Olympia because they think Olympia is a
[00:15:09] treasury. So that was my only concern
[00:15:13] with listing everything under Olympia.
[00:15:16] >> Yeah, it's a
[00:15:17] >> Yeah,
[00:15:18] >> fair. Go ahead, Diego.
[00:15:21] >> Yeah. No, sorry. Uh yeah, about that. I
[00:15:24] also think I I agree with uh story here
[00:15:27] because if you search for Olympia or
[00:15:29] Ethereum classic in any search engine it
[00:15:33] will came up with this treasury thing
[00:15:34] because there has been already like
[00:15:37] pretty like like articles published on
[00:15:40] coins coin something I don't remember
[00:15:43] the name but um I think in coin market
[00:15:46] cap under the the Ethereum classic user
[00:15:49] uh so they're pinging uh Olympia to be
[00:15:52] the X hard fork um with the treasury and
[00:15:55] all that. So yeah, I think it will be
[00:15:57] better. I don't know if we have to
[00:16:00] decide for a name right now, but if
[00:16:02] Yeah, if the next uh hard fork is I mean
[00:16:05] it's not going to include the the
[00:16:07] treasury, I will keep it like with a
[00:16:09] different name.
[00:16:12] >> Okay, I like the Olympia name because
[00:16:14] it's out there and it's been there for a
[00:16:16] year. uh whether or not it has a
[00:16:18] treasury in it or how the 1559 gets
[00:16:21] implemented,
[00:16:23] we we can still decide, but just as a
[00:16:25] name, it's doesn't matter to me at all
[00:16:27] because it doesn't impact anything. But
[00:16:29] this does it's already out there as the
[00:16:31] next hard fork. So, it's easier to say
[00:16:33] Olympia is the hard fork and do
[00:16:37] push articles out saying or clarifying
[00:16:40] that a Treasury is an option in it. kind
[00:16:42] of like how the merge did for a while.
[00:16:45] It's a long-term goal, but it's uh and
[00:16:48] it can be part of the Olympia or the
[00:16:50] next fork. But, uh the important thing
[00:16:54] is that we can agree what's in the next
[00:16:57] fork. Everyone can know that it exists
[00:16:59] and it's coming and we can start
[00:17:01] coordinating and locking on a name and
[00:17:03] not going around in circles on it is
[00:17:05] more important to me than uh other
[00:17:08] stuff, I guess. So,
[00:17:12] I just want to call it Olympia and then
[00:17:14] we can start bickering about what's
[00:17:15] inside of it.
[00:17:21] Yeah, to be honest, I mean, if if that's
[00:17:24] a way forward, then I'm open to it. Um,
[00:17:31] it would have been nice if this
[00:17:32] conversation was had in the first place
[00:17:34] before these like promotions were made
[00:17:36] about Olympia containing a treasury. And
[00:17:38] it does tie nicely into the next topic
[00:17:42] which is about the the publication
[00:17:44] guidelines on athereum classic.org and
[00:17:46] having this disclaimer about the
[00:17:49] contents of Olympia andor like the path
[00:17:53] forward with 1559 and
[00:17:57] the issue is that the the way that
[00:17:59] Olympia has been framed so far is that
[00:18:02] this is a hard fall that's going to
[00:18:03] happen and it's going to have a
[00:18:04] treasury. So undoing that messaging
[00:18:08] probably there's not that many people
[00:18:10] following anyway. So it's not going to
[00:18:11] be like a game game over scenario to be
[00:18:15] honest. So if this is grand that needs
[00:18:17] to be seated then okay I'm I'm willing
[00:18:20] to do that. I think from my side at
[00:18:22] least we can come up with some kind of
[00:18:26] uh path forward on that as long as we
[00:18:30] like properly make it clear that it's
[00:18:33] not necessarily treasury things are
[00:18:34] still being debated.
[00:18:36] >> Mhm.
[00:18:39] >> Okay.
[00:18:39] >> Yeah. Diego just Diego just posted a
[00:18:41] link in the chat. I'll also add this to
[00:18:45] the show notes. And yeah, this is this
[00:18:49] is like kind of the the kind of
[00:18:52] difficulty in using the word Olympia.
[00:19:01] But again, um
[00:19:03] >> like to me this is not like a major
[00:19:08] blocker right now. Like it's not really
[00:19:10] something we should be arguing about at
[00:19:12] this stage. Ideally, we should be
[00:19:13] arguing about what what we're actually
[00:19:14] going to be implementing as opposed to
[00:19:16] the name.
[00:19:18] >> Exactly. Yeah. So, maybe this Olympia
[00:19:22] developer series expands out to 1120 as
[00:19:25] well because that's the other
[00:19:27] >> I mean alternative that is out there of
[00:19:30] >> either way I think we've decided we want
[00:19:32] to do 1559. We want to do smoothing.
[00:19:34] It's coming at some point. Whether or
[00:19:35] not there's a treasury portion or not is
[00:19:39] uh currently debated, but
[00:19:41] >> Yep. more broadly
[00:19:43] >> just for the
[00:19:44] >> yeah go ahead
[00:19:45] >> sorry I was just going to mention that
[00:19:47] smoothing um
[00:19:51] can be implemented in a number of ways
[00:19:53] right and 115 is currently like a smart
[00:19:56] contract application layer based
[00:19:57] smoothing system and it's it's a very
[00:20:00] different implementation to 11 120 so
[00:20:05] they they kind of are still opposing
[00:20:07] even though there is a smoothing
[00:20:09] mechanism proposed It's they're they're
[00:20:12] very different implementations.
[00:20:22] >> How are they different again? Sorry.
[00:20:25] >> So in 1115 the else the L smoothing
[00:20:29] mechanism is basically it's been defined
[00:20:32] as far as I understand as like kind of
[00:20:36] as part of the Olympia governance voting
[00:20:39] system.
[00:20:40] each I mean it's kind of under
[00:20:43] underdefined to be honest because you
[00:20:45] you'd assume there needs to be some kind
[00:20:46] of uh transaction initiated every block
[00:20:50] to
[00:20:52] reimburse miners but right now it's
[00:20:54] implemented as a smart contract based
[00:20:58] future-looking
[00:21:00] um
[00:21:02] like refund mechanism in the application
[00:21:04] layer since all of the uh all of the
[00:21:07] base fee is added to that treasury smart
[00:21:09] contract
[00:21:11] Whereas in 1120 it's based on a protocol
[00:21:14] layer layer with no smart contracts.
[00:21:17] It's returned using a stateless
[00:21:19] backwards looking mechanism. Um got it
[00:21:23] >> and it Yeah. So it completely separates
[00:21:25] the the application layer from the the
[00:21:28] protocol.
[00:21:29] >> Yeah.
[00:21:30] >> Is part of the block of uh paying the
[00:21:33] previous miners.
[00:21:35] Correct.
[00:21:38] >> Yes.
[00:21:40] Okay. Uh I guess in that definition then
[00:21:45] uh I guess for clarity
[00:21:47] >> in in my head 15 or 115
[00:21:50] uh is the middle ground between the two.
[00:21:54] 111 was all of the base fee goes to
[00:21:57] treasury. 1120 is there's smoothing uh
[00:22:01] to all the miners get the base fee
[00:22:04] smoothed out. and 1115 is the middle of
[00:22:08] there's smoothing with a portion that
[00:22:10] goes to the treasury.
[00:22:13] >> Okay. And currently do you advocate
[00:22:18] one implementation over the other? Like
[00:22:20] currently 1115 says it should be
[00:22:23] implemented in a contract
[00:22:25] >> but it could it could be possible to
[00:22:27] implement as like a protocol layer and
[00:22:29] then 5% goes to a treasury contract for
[00:22:31] example.
[00:22:33] >> Yeah. protocol level would be the
[00:22:34] preference uh with the optional
[00:22:37] >> treasury.
[00:22:39] >> Okay. I think in that case then 1115
[00:22:42] should be updated.
[00:22:44] >> Yeah.
[00:22:48] >> Okay. But but in any case, both 115,
[00:22:53] 111
[00:22:54] and 11 120
[00:22:57] require additional like uh client
[00:23:00] testing and modeling I think to to
[00:23:04] finalize those specific parameters like
[00:23:06] the the block elasticity and um the the
[00:23:10] shape of the curve.
[00:23:12] >> Yeah.
[00:23:14] And those are probably the those three
[00:23:17] are going to require the work for the
[00:23:18] next hard fork. The other ones I think
[00:23:21] are already implemented in Basu and
[00:23:23] Corg. So it's just picking a block
[00:23:25] number really. Uh and then we magically
[00:23:28] get upgrades.
[00:23:31] >> Yeah.
[00:23:34] Um, so yeah, the only other thing that I
[00:23:38] wanted to uh highlight about the the
[00:23:41] Olympia umbrella is that I think this
[00:23:45] would also need sign off from Chris
[00:23:46] Mercer, who's the author of the the
[00:23:48] original Olympia series of whether 1120
[00:23:51] is
[00:23:52] >> and given that he's the main author,
[00:23:55] like he should probably have some say in
[00:23:56] that. So I've left that as an open
[00:23:59] question for him.
[00:24:01] >> Sure.
[00:24:06] Can we talk timelines I guess
[00:24:10] as well on this call?
[00:24:13] Yeah, we can. I think I think the next
[00:24:15] like important thing to try and figure
[00:24:18] out is like
[00:24:22] how do we reach consensus? Like how do
[00:24:25] we get input from other stakeholders?
[00:24:29] because right now there's there's
[00:24:30] basically two editors that support
[00:24:32] either side. There's kind of a deadlock,
[00:24:34] right? And it's 50/50
[00:24:37] um more or less. So, how do we get other
[00:24:41] people's voices in and how do we either
[00:24:45] allow them to signal their support for
[00:24:46] one side or the other or
[00:24:49] like can we build some kind of
[00:24:52] um way for miners to show what they're
[00:24:54] likely to mine in the future? Is this is
[00:24:58] this already built in to the protocol?
[00:25:01] Is there some mechanism that we can
[00:25:02] utilize um that's been used in other
[00:25:04] chains for like helping us figure out
[00:25:08] where people are thinking? And are there
[00:25:11] any any other ways we can think of to
[00:25:15] help us make this decision given that
[00:25:17] there is no like clear
[00:25:20] uh consensus right now between the ECIP
[00:25:23] maintainers of which path to go forward
[00:25:25] with?
[00:25:29] Because like when we're talking
[00:25:31] timelines then really I guess the
[00:25:34] implementation is not that
[00:25:36] much of a burden. It's really just like
[00:25:39] the the coordinating and reaching
[00:25:41] consensus part that's going to take some
[00:25:42] time and if there's any way we can
[00:25:44] shorten that time frame then we can we
[00:25:46] can accelerate the fork
[00:25:48] deadline.
[00:25:50] >> Yeah. Well, I mean the only I guess
[00:25:54] controversial part is around 1559 and
[00:25:56] its handling. The rest of it, I don't
[00:25:57] think there's any objections. Uh
[00:26:03] so figuring out how to settle that part
[00:26:06] quickly would be really helpful cuz the
[00:26:09] other stuff we could in theory June's
[00:26:12] possible for getting it live on mainet
[00:26:15] March could be we could go live on test
[00:26:17] net. So it's just block numbers. It's
[00:26:20] easy, but getting the consensus around
[00:26:22] 1559 is still the uh more challenging
[00:26:25] part. As you said,
[00:26:27] >> uh we do kind of have minor signaling.
[00:26:30] They can change the uh
[00:26:32] uh
[00:26:34] what they're using for nons or uh how
[00:26:37] they're signing
[00:26:40] things. I mean
[00:26:42] there's also uh
[00:26:47] a possibility of doing something like a
[00:26:49] prediction market of where we create two
[00:26:52] coins, a a procoin and an against coin
[00:26:56] for the treasury and people lock their
[00:26:59] tokens into it and then we ride through
[00:27:00] the fork uh and then unlock on the other
[00:27:03] side. If you went with the you didn't
[00:27:05] want the treasury, then that's the chain
[00:27:06] you're on. If uh
[00:27:08] >> Mhm. you wanted the treasury, then
[00:27:11] that's the chain you're on and both
[00:27:13] sides end up on the other one uh with
[00:27:16] your money
[00:27:18] and I guess theoretically you sell the
[00:27:20] the losing token or the winners get the
[00:27:23] losing tokens or however prediction
[00:27:24] markets work.
[00:27:26] >> I see. So, you're saying that like uh
[00:27:30] assuming there's like a chain split
[00:27:33] >> or is that just
[00:27:34] >> It's a Well, it's a skin in the game of
[00:27:36] it cost people on Discord nothing to
[00:27:39] talk all day and say how terrible
[00:27:42] everything is and never develop
[00:27:43] anything. Uh that's easy actually
[00:27:48] putting uh locking coins up and saying I
[00:27:51] believe in this so much that I'm willing
[00:27:53] to burn all of my etc. uh is a different
[00:27:57] different uh question because you have
[00:27:59] to ride out the uncertainty in pricing
[00:28:02] and uh all kinds of things. It changes
[00:28:03] the dynamic of it a bit.
[00:28:08] >> It does. Um but at the same time, you
[00:28:10] don't want to have too much of a burden
[00:28:12] for people so that like you're
[00:28:14] encouraging everyone with minimal effort
[00:28:16] to to engage with it somehow. like
[00:28:21] um another idea would be
[00:28:24] I'm not sure if this would work but like
[00:28:28] creating some kind of relationship with
[00:28:31] the the the gas limit that miners can
[00:28:34] vote on with with an outcome to signal
[00:28:37] whether they prefer one or the other.
[00:28:38] Like let's say you have 8 million
[00:28:43] uh 100
[00:28:46] is a signal for yes and then 7 million
[00:28:51] 99999
[00:28:53] 100 would be a signal for no and then
[00:28:55] you can just kind of like vote with the
[00:28:58] gas pro gas limit target. Is that
[00:29:01] something that might work? And I'm just
[00:29:05] thinking out loud here. Yeah, I think
[00:29:07] the mining pools control that though
[00:29:08] because uh they're the ones that
[00:29:11] actually submit the blocks that with the
[00:29:13] Coinbase and so I think that they
[00:29:16] control that. I don't know if individual
[00:29:17] miners can set their own gas limits as
[00:29:19] they're doing the
[00:29:21] >> I see.
[00:29:26] >> Yeah, trying to I guess I guess maybe a
[00:29:28] layered approach would be good. Um, but
[00:29:31] again, we don't want to create too much
[00:29:32] work for ourselves and
[00:29:35] >> the participants
[00:29:37] >> and we don't want to create an overly
[00:29:39] complex process that's going to drag
[00:29:40] this out for longer than it needs to be
[00:29:42] because as I said, most of this is we
[00:29:44] put a block number in, uh, everything
[00:29:47] works.
[00:29:48] >> So, uh, dragging it out until the end of
[00:29:51] next year is would be crazy.
[00:29:57] up lost.
[00:29:59] >> Do we have any idea the work that would
[00:30:01] be required to do the smoothing for 1559
[00:30:04] in the core client?
[00:30:05] >> Maybe.
[00:30:13] >> Sorry, Diego. Could you repeat that?
[00:30:16] >> Oh, sorry. I I I missed Cody for for for
[00:30:19] a while, so I I wasn't sure if it was me
[00:30:21] or or it was him.
[00:30:24] I think maybe you cut out for a moment
[00:30:26] because I could hear him fully.
[00:30:28] >> Uhhuh. Okay.
[00:30:29] >> So, could you do you know how much
[00:30:32] effort development wise implementing
[00:30:37] 1120
[00:30:38] would be? I believe that was Cody's
[00:30:41] question.
[00:30:46] Um
[00:30:48] I think that the main problem is not
[00:30:50] implementing it but um the testing part
[00:30:53] that will be terrible because we have to
[00:30:55] simulate I mean we will have probably to
[00:30:58] emulate what uh Ethereum made uh for
[00:31:01] 1559 and that's something that we have
[00:31:03] to research but um from what I remember
[00:31:06] they kind of replay most of the their
[00:31:10] mainet
[00:31:11] um like applying
[00:31:13] this mechanism and they measure
[00:31:17] different scenarios on how that will
[00:31:19] work and how the car will change and all
[00:31:21] that. So first thing will be to
[00:31:26] yeah to dig in on how was that tested.
[00:31:29] Probably we could reach out some of the
[00:31:31] people involved back at the time. I
[00:31:33] think they are still there and asking
[00:31:34] that and yeah then replicating it. Um
[00:31:40] yeah I think that will be the the most
[00:31:43] uh crucial part or time consuming and
[00:31:46] the most difficult one for
[00:31:49] for one head on how long it will take.
[00:31:51] Um for the implementation itself it's
[00:31:54] quite simple. Uh it's pretty much the
[00:31:56] the pseudo code but it's in the ECIP and
[00:32:00] I already implemented it on Bessu which
[00:32:02] is uh what was quite simple. Uh but I
[00:32:05] think the the most difficult part is is
[00:32:08] the other one. Um yeah and this will be
[00:32:11] a way different um hardwork than than
[00:32:14] previous ones.
[00:32:16] So I honestly think that thinking about
[00:32:19] March for having a test net it's a bit
[00:32:24] um ambitious.
[00:32:26] >> Why is this different from previous hard
[00:32:28] forks?
[00:32:29] >> Uh because this will change the monetary
[00:32:32] policy which is something that might
[00:32:34] affect in in ways that are not so well
[00:32:40] >> is so easy to to to define up front.
[00:32:43] That's that's the thing I I most worry
[00:32:46] about.
[00:32:51] >> Sorry.
[00:32:52] >> How does this affect the monetary
[00:32:53] policy?
[00:32:55] >> Well, it's it's not the monetary policy
[00:32:58] itself. Sorry. It's it's the the the fee
[00:33:00] mechanism.
[00:33:02] So, it's completely different thing
[00:33:03] right now. It will be a different thing.
[00:33:07] >> It will be a different thing. I don't
[00:33:09] think that that impacts anything as far
[00:33:11] as timelines go.
[00:33:13] If we need to talk about it all to talk
[00:33:16] about it, but
[00:33:18] I'd love to understand the difficulty in
[00:33:20] implementing these things.
[00:33:23] >> Okay. Well, yeah, maybe it's uh
[00:33:28] yeah, maybe it's it's simpler than how
[00:33:31] it was in Ethereum because well, they
[00:33:33] were burning things and we will not. So,
[00:33:36] that might simplify a few things. But
[00:33:38] either way, I think it will be
[00:33:40] interesting to run at least some of the
[00:33:42] tests they they run.
[00:33:45] >> Yeah. No, I'm I'm concerned that you're
[00:33:47] concerned. Uh is I guess what I would
[00:33:50] say. Uh I think we should test uh that's
[00:33:54] as I'm been building out the Fukulele
[00:33:57] client. the Gorguroth test net test net
[00:33:59] has been for that of making sure that
[00:34:01] all the clients talk, everything works
[00:34:02] together and that I'm able to uh make
[00:34:06] sure all the parameters are tuned in
[00:34:07] right so I definitely think that that's
[00:34:09] valuable but
[00:34:12] I don't think that this takes longer
[00:34:14] than
[00:34:15] >> yeah know some something different from
[00:34:18] from previous hard fork is that
[00:34:20] basically
[00:34:22] other hard fork have been already tested
[00:34:24] on Ethereum and this we will not at
[00:34:27] least not in the in the implementation
[00:34:29] that we are going through
[00:34:31] >> and either way it took us like a few
[00:34:34] months even we were when we were like
[00:34:36] three people working on this um but um
[00:34:41] yeah I think that's one of the main
[00:34:43] differences right now in this particular
[00:34:45] hardwork beside implementation itself it
[00:34:47] will be something we're really unique
[00:34:50] >> okay that makes sense
[00:34:56] But um I still I think we can still
[00:34:58] think uh for for a timeline maybe not in
[00:35:02] this go but it's good to have this in
[00:35:04] mind so we don't lose focus on what we
[00:35:07] are doing and also if we are lucky we
[00:35:11] may have some extra hands
[00:35:15] not long not so long in the future uh
[00:35:18] but yeah that could help us a lot on
[00:35:20] moving this forward.
[00:35:26] Yeah, part of the goal of this
[00:35:29] ECIP120.dev dev uh research project was
[00:35:34] to try and outline all the potential
[00:35:36] like things that need testing and there
[00:35:39] are like additional
[00:35:41] um concerns that don't exist on other
[00:35:45] other forks that have been implemented
[00:35:47] before on Ethereum classic sorry on
[00:35:49] Ethereum mainet like uh this whole
[00:35:53] figuring out how the clients will
[00:35:58] um
[00:36:01] handle reorgs and that kind of thing
[00:36:03] using different
[00:36:05] uh rules for for that based on this um
[00:36:08] this new distribution mechanism and the
[00:36:11] different numbers of like how many
[00:36:14] blocks is a suitable amount to
[00:36:17] ensure the economic properties as
[00:36:20] outlined in that um research paper that
[00:36:24] we've talked about before. uh and like
[00:36:26] finding the sweet spot between like do
[00:36:30] we have a thousand blocks of curving, do
[00:36:31] we have 50 blocks of curving and what
[00:36:33] what is the like these are research
[00:36:35] topics that need to be thought about and
[00:36:40] also tested in practice. Um so it's not
[00:36:43] just a case of flipping a switch of
[00:36:44] something else that's happened in the
[00:36:46] past because we need to do like uh novel
[00:36:50] research, original research on this.
[00:36:53] >> Yeah. And yeah, I guess what I'm saying
[00:36:56] is can we have a go no-go by March 1st
[00:36:59] of whether we have confidence that we
[00:37:01] know the answer and we have the research
[00:37:03] and this can be included in the hard
[00:37:04] fork or it can be deferred to later and
[00:37:07] we can activate all the rest of them uh
[00:37:11] come June 1st.
[00:37:15] Yeah,
[00:37:16] >> I'm happy to to help help contribute to
[00:37:18] this research and
[00:37:20] uh like the whole point of me jumping in
[00:37:23] as an author is because I I see the need
[00:37:24] to like help Ethereum Classic at this
[00:37:26] point and I'm willing to put the effort
[00:37:28] in and help contribute to these research
[00:37:30] efforts. It's just that I need to be
[00:37:33] sure that there's a like
[00:37:37] there's a reasonable chance it will
[00:37:38] actually be useful like cuz a lot of
[00:37:41] this research is only applicable to 1120
[00:37:44] like the if if L smoothing which wasn't
[00:37:47] a thing in Olympia until a month ago.
[00:37:50] >> If that's something we want and we want
[00:37:52] to research that then like let's decide
[00:37:54] whether it's actually going to be useful
[00:37:56] to spend that time researching.
[00:38:00] Yeah, I think my my my main point right
[00:38:03] now for research is if the 128 uh blocks
[00:38:08] behind it's enough because uh that's the
[00:38:11] number of that currently every client uh
[00:38:14] needs to have in in memory or accessible
[00:38:17] because uh the block hash is defined to
[00:38:20] >> to to reply to 128 logs from the past.
[00:38:25] uh if we go further than that uh it will
[00:38:28] imply um like
[00:38:31] a change on the requirements on on the
[00:38:33] node and that's something that we we
[00:38:35] might want to avoid. So if 128 it's uh
[00:38:40] it's enough that will be great.
[00:38:46] >> Awesome. And my assumption is that like
[00:38:49] the more the better in terms of the
[00:38:51] smoothing effect is more pronounced and
[00:38:53] less gameable. The longer the larger the
[00:38:55] number of blocks. And if 128 is like a a
[00:39:00] good technical milestone that doesn't
[00:39:03] require too many additional assumptions
[00:39:05] to be messed with, then it seems like a
[00:39:08] good starting point at least. And if the
[00:39:10] clients can perform with 128, then
[00:39:12] that's a
[00:39:14] uh
[00:39:16] like a good proposal.
[00:39:18] >> Yeah. I mean, it's it's similar to the
[00:39:21] miners uh payer last and shares uh
[00:39:25] smoothing. So, you might look at that
[00:39:27] and see how they've
[00:39:29] where they've ended up.
[00:39:32] But I mean, yeah, conceptually,
[00:39:34] >> could you repeat? uh mining pools
[00:39:36] whenever they're paying out for the
[00:39:38] shares that come uh from their different
[00:39:40] miners. They to avoid the pool hopping,
[00:39:44] they do a smoothing algorithm of either
[00:39:46] pay per last in shares where uh you
[00:39:51] whenever the mining pool finds a block,
[00:39:53] it pays out proportionally to how much
[00:39:55] you've contributed to uh the pool even
[00:39:58] if you didn't particularly find a hash.
[00:39:59] So that smooths it out that way. The
[00:40:01] other way is pay per share. So it's more
[00:40:04] directly proportional and less
[00:40:06] smoothing. Uh but it's it's a problem
[00:40:08] that mining pools have dealt with for a
[00:40:11] long time of how to keep u hash rates
[00:40:14] stable.
[00:40:18] >> Cool.
[00:40:23] While we're on the topic, is there any
[00:40:25] advantage to having a decay curve
[00:40:28] instead of just linearly? Like is there
[00:40:31] some incentivization
[00:40:32] of empty blocks by
[00:40:36] um
[00:40:38] by not including more transactions in
[00:40:39] some way that
[00:40:41] is related to the amount of reward they
[00:40:44] that miners are given?
[00:40:46] Or is just a linear
[00:40:49] return
[00:40:51] going to provide the same economic
[00:40:56] like uh incentives?
[00:41:00] Yeah, something to look at. I mean
[00:41:02] linear is easier for the math side of it
[00:41:04] probably of a cleaner code.
[00:41:07] >> U the exponential
[00:41:11] doing a decay could be interesting as
[00:41:13] well of um
[00:41:16] if you're
[00:41:17] >> right I'm just not sure what the
[00:41:18] implication
[00:41:23] >> yeah something to think about. I mean,
[00:41:25] because we have 18 decimal points to
[00:41:26] play with, so it's a pretty big space to
[00:41:28] fractionalize returns on things. Uh, I
[00:41:32] guess the other thing to look at would
[00:41:34] be where the funds get returned to.
[00:41:35] Right now, the way that the blocks are
[00:41:39] put together, the Coinbase recipient is
[00:41:41] part of the block header. uh if this is
[00:41:44] going to be more of a smoothing uh
[00:41:48] place, being able to define where that
[00:41:50] Coinbase goes would be
[00:41:53] better. Like kind of more like I guess
[00:41:54] the way that staking has deposit
[00:41:56] addresses uh withdrawal addresses having
[00:41:59] um similar thing for the smoothing uh
[00:42:03] address where you can have all your
[00:42:04] funds go to and
[00:42:06] uh be managed better
[00:42:10] would be interesting.
[00:42:12] >> Yeah. Something else that um I'm just
[00:42:14] thinking is that maybe it will it might
[00:42:17] be a problem for explorers
[00:42:19] because uh I I don't know how they
[00:42:22] calculate their reward for each block,
[00:42:24] but that will certainly change.
[00:42:28] >> Yep.
[00:42:31] >> From what I remember, I don't think that
[00:42:33] there's an op code for uh block reward.
[00:42:38] >> No, no, there's no.
[00:42:42] So
[00:42:42] >> no there's no so they they might need to
[00:42:45] replicate the same algorithm for
[00:42:49] calculating the reward
[00:42:52] but um yeah it might be interesting also
[00:42:55] to have uh eventually their perspective
[00:42:58] on this on how they can adjust probably
[00:43:01] with the block scope people at least
[00:43:06] and
[00:43:09] >> additionally maybe mining software
[00:43:11] would have to be adjusted.
[00:43:14] >> Uh no, I don't think so. No, no.
[00:43:17] >> Okay.
[00:43:17] >> No, because uh the the template will be
[00:43:20] still the same. So, no.
[00:43:26] >> Would that be true of the pool
[00:43:27] operators?
[00:43:31] >> Uh no, it will it should be transparent
[00:43:33] to them.
[00:43:35] >> Mhm. Okay.
[00:43:37] >> Yeah. Yeah, the pool software just calls
[00:43:39] the GU node and uh gets a block template
[00:43:43] to work.
[00:43:44] >> Yeah.
[00:43:46] >> Cool. So, the only like downstream
[00:43:50] uh
[00:43:52] software clients that may be affected
[00:43:54] are blockchain explorers.
[00:43:59] >> Yeah,
[00:44:00] >> potentially. Yeah, we need to look at
[00:44:02] it, I guess.
[00:44:06] And how would this um
[00:44:08] >> sorry to how would the the existence of
[00:44:13] both type one and type two
[00:44:16] transactions
[00:44:18] uh like mesh with the additional base
[00:44:24] fee.
[00:44:25] They they just go directly to the base
[00:44:27] and gets moved out, right?
[00:44:30] >> Yeah. the the structure of the
[00:44:31] transaction is exactly the same as it's
[00:44:34] in Ethereum.
[00:44:36] So yeah, it's taken the the base fee and
[00:44:38] that's the the amount that it's sum up
[00:44:41] and distributed among the end miners.
[00:44:48] Cool. So the blockchain explorers would
[00:44:50] basically just have to implement exactly
[00:44:52] the same block. We're going to switch to
[00:44:53] this new algorithm to determine the
[00:44:55] emission.
[00:44:59] Um well the the mission will be the
[00:45:01] same. The the only difference will be
[00:45:04] how much
[00:45:05] >> Yeah. Sorry.
[00:45:06] >> Yeah. Wrong wrong terminology.
[00:45:09] >> I meant um block reward.
[00:45:12] >> Yes. Yes. Then yes. Uh it it will
[00:45:14] change. Yeah.
[00:45:19] >> It would change the block reward.
[00:45:23] >> Uh yes. I mean there is still the the
[00:45:26] block reward which will be um the
[00:45:29] existing one minus the the sum of the of
[00:45:33] the base fees. Uh but then you will get
[00:45:37] added uh a portion of the bus and
[00:45:40] blocks.
[00:45:43] That's how your your current reward is
[00:45:45] calculated.
[00:45:48] >> Yeah, that's true. I thought you meant
[00:45:49] the overall uh block award versus
[00:45:51] transaction fees. the block reward
[00:45:53] itself will still decline like uh 17 or
[00:45:56] 107.
[00:45:57] >> Uh yeah, yeah, no. Yeah, that's still
[00:46:00] there.
[00:46:01] >> Okay.
[00:46:04] Uh what about owners also? Uh I guess
[00:46:06] that's going to be the challenging part.
[00:46:09] >> We disincentivized them with 1017, but I
[00:46:12] think it's still going to be
[00:46:16] pretty complicated.
[00:46:20] >> Yeah, I thought about that. Uh but um
[00:46:24] yeah, I think uh it's well it it's
[00:46:26] something that we might need to to at
[00:46:29] least be a bit more clear on what we
[00:46:31] think. Uh I I gave a a talk about uh
[00:46:33] OMR's and how this will affect and my
[00:46:36] conclusion does was that um it it
[00:46:40] doesn't change the incentive for for
[00:46:42] keep mining competitive blocks. Um but
[00:46:46] yeah, we might need to be more clear
[00:46:48] about that in the in somewhere. I don't
[00:46:50] know if in the research research page or
[00:46:53] or in the ECIP.
[00:46:58] >> Could you um
[00:47:01] do like a quick summary of what the
[00:47:04] concern is there?
[00:47:08] >> Uh yeah, I think well basically the the
[00:47:10] concern is that if we it will change the
[00:47:12] incentive for for um mining competitive
[00:47:15] blocks. That's the the main concern. I
[00:47:18] think uh it doesn't change the the
[00:47:21] incentive for for doing that but uh it
[00:47:24] worth to to take another look.
[00:47:28] >> So this this would be like empty blocks
[00:47:31] being a problem.
[00:47:34] >> Okay.
[00:47:34] >> Uh no competitive blocks. I mean if you
[00:47:37] if some other miner will pick um I mean
[00:47:41] the the idea of mers is that you are
[00:47:43] rewarding even competitive blocks. So,
[00:47:47] so yep, that's uh I think that's that's
[00:47:50] the main concern. I don't know, Cody, if
[00:47:52] I understood you correctly.
[00:47:55] >> Yeah, whenever the uh whenever you make
[00:47:58] blocks, you can make your block heavier
[00:48:01] by adding the previous blocks that were
[00:48:04] almost blocks, the owners, and there's
[00:48:07] some you get some payment for adding
[00:48:09] these into it. So figuring out uh making
[00:48:13] sure that the owners are added are based
[00:48:15] on the right parent blocks of the ones
[00:48:17] that you're paying out uh 128 blocks
[00:48:20] later and it's not just a randomly made
[00:48:22] up uh
[00:48:25] uh would be I guess the concern
[00:48:28] >> of make sure everything maps together.
[00:48:35] Cool.
[00:48:36] We should definitely have this as a
[00:48:37] research avenue.
[00:49:00] Something interesting uh that we can do
[00:49:04] maybe is to to get a list of the people
[00:49:06] that were involved into the original
[00:49:09] 1559.
[00:49:11] Um I don't know maybe send them an email
[00:49:13] or something if they may be interested
[00:49:15] to take a look at what we are working
[00:49:17] on. Um maybe they might have some
[00:49:19] insight.
[00:49:23] >> Yeah, that's a good idea.
[00:49:25] I was I was hoping eventually maybe um
[00:49:29] Hassu may be interested in this
[00:49:31] mechanism since he was uh quite involved
[00:49:34] in that original discussion on Ethereum
[00:49:37] side.
[00:49:40] >> Yeah, I don't know Cody if you know some
[00:49:42] of them but uh it will also be helpful
[00:49:45] if you will reach out eventually.
[00:49:51] I don't know if I know one off the top
[00:49:52] of my head, but uh
[00:49:55] >> yeah, we we'll get a list of names.
[00:50:04] >> What else do we want to talk about at
[00:50:05] the end of your extravaganza here?
[00:50:12] >> Um
[00:50:12] >> I mean I guess are we Does that sound
[00:50:14] like a plan? research and make a
[00:50:16] decision in March of whether we go with
[00:50:20] the 1559 or we just implement the other
[00:50:24] ones without 5059. That way we can at
[00:50:27] least have uh something to drive
[00:50:28] towards.
[00:50:30] >> Yep.
[00:50:33] >> Sounds good for me.
[00:50:36] >> Looks like I'm happy to collaborate in
[00:50:38] the organizing research efforts.
[00:50:41] anything I can do,
[00:50:43] uh,
[00:50:45] just let me know. I I'll continue
[00:50:47] hosting the calls to,
[00:50:50] um, update the community about what's
[00:50:51] going on and hopefully can also get my
[00:50:54] hands dirty on things if needed.
[00:50:57] >> Cool. Yeah, I think 2026 is going to be
[00:50:59] a a lot funner year than it has been in
[00:51:02] the past for Ethereum Classic.
[00:51:11] Okay. Um,
[00:51:15] there were some other minor things that
[00:51:17] are not really worth spending too much
[00:51:20] time on. Editorial guidelines about ETC
[00:51:22] the community calls thing. Uh, I think
[00:51:25] the AI summaries are just interesting.
[00:51:27] Not try to inject any bias. So, I'm just
[00:51:30] going to continue copy pasting them in
[00:51:32] terms of whatever Zoom tells me to. Uh,
[00:51:35] happy to accept pull requests.
[00:51:38] I don't know if we need to implement any
[00:51:40] additional
[00:51:42] um safeguards for the community calls
[00:51:44] website. Uh currently I can just commit
[00:51:47] to the main branch and update things
[00:51:48] directly
[00:51:50] if anyone prefers to do it a different
[00:51:53] way. I'm open to that. Um, I'm also
[00:51:56] happy to draft some
[00:52:00] guidelines for editorial that I can
[00:52:02] stick to myself.
[00:52:04] Uh, if that's something that people
[00:52:06] actually need.
[00:52:09] >> Uh, content. Uh,
[00:52:12] >> sorry to to interrupt. Uh, Phil, is the
[00:52:16] ambassador program still going with the
[00:52:18] ETC grants now? Uh and is this somewhere
[00:52:23] where they could contribute to articles
[00:52:25] and things like this
[00:52:28] in the future?
[00:52:28] >> Um no actually they are doing just on
[00:52:31] Twitter to do some promoting stuff and
[00:52:34] uh they are not writing stuff like to um
[00:52:37] our official website.
[00:52:40] >> Okay. But they are still active and on
[00:52:42] Twitter.
[00:52:42] >> Yeah. If you prefer to let let's say
[00:52:45] contribute some papers or articles on
[00:52:48] our official website, it is also okay.
[00:52:50] We can organize some this kind of
[00:52:52] events.
[00:52:55] >> Okay. Uh yeah, I think it'd be maybe
[00:52:58] interesting because you had also
[00:52:59] mentioned the store of maybe doing co
[00:53:01] apps or something for uh or people
[00:53:03] coming on here and speaking or doing
[00:53:04] that. So that might be a way to get the
[00:53:06] community involved more as well. And I
[00:53:07] think the guidelines would help with
[00:53:08] that too.
[00:53:11] >> For sure. It'd be great to get uh guests
[00:53:15] on to talk about specific topics. Um,
[00:53:20] and I I'm not actually too familiar with
[00:53:22] the ambassador program. Um, I guess I
[00:53:25] was kind of uh not around when it got
[00:53:27] announced. Could you maybe uh tell the
[00:53:30] listeners a little bit about the
[00:53:32] ambassador program and who's behind
[00:53:34] that, what it what it involves exactly?
[00:53:37] >> Yeah, sure. So basically the um uh
[00:53:40] ambassador ambassador program is funded
[00:53:42] by the EGD which is a DC grandstyle and
[00:53:46] uh it is for the ambassadors to let
[00:53:50] let's say to promote to post some kind
[00:53:53] of um
[00:53:55] um promoting twitterers uh promoting
[00:53:58] tweets and uh to let's say to attract
[00:54:02] more involves and uh interactions to the
[00:54:07] eosystem. system. Um, yeah, that is what
[00:54:10] they do for now.
[00:54:14] >> Okay. So, is there some kind of like
[00:54:17] funding
[00:54:18] behind this?
[00:54:20] >> Yeah.
[00:54:21] >> Okay.
[00:54:23] >> Like the uh if they attract more let's
[00:54:27] say likes or uh attractions, replies,
[00:54:30] you will get some more um re awards to
[00:54:33] that.
[00:54:36] >> Awesome. Yeah, I think now that we have
[00:54:38] this website, it's a little bit nicer to
[00:54:40] share the information about these calls
[00:54:43] and it's easier to to follow the the
[00:54:47] series and hopefully more people will
[00:54:48] join as we continue to do this
[00:54:50] regularly. So hopefully we can grow and
[00:54:56] uh get some some traction.
[00:55:03] And I'll I'll post the link about the
[00:55:05] ambassador program in the show notes as
[00:55:07] well if anyone's interested.
[00:55:16] And now that we have this website, it
[00:55:18] does um act as a starting point for some
[00:55:20] other potential features like proof of
[00:55:24] participation,
[00:55:25] uh NFTTS and that kind of stuff. And uh
[00:55:30] more like figuring out how to organize
[00:55:32] future calls like whether we do this on
[00:55:36] a fixed day or whether we have like
[00:55:37] special episodes where we coordinate
[00:55:39] with each other to try and make sure
[00:55:41] that we can get everyone involved.
[00:55:44] I I was really hoping that Chris would
[00:55:46] be able to join this call. Um, and maybe
[00:55:48] he can join one in the future and
[00:55:51] hopefully we can get out of this phase
[00:55:53] of deadlock and move forward and just
[00:55:56] start building stuff.
[00:56:03] Yeah. No, sounds like good. Like I said,
[00:56:05] 2026 is going to be great. uh as part of
[00:56:09] a a broader outreach also I guess we
[00:56:11] haven't talked about it uh this publicly
[00:56:14] but uh the last article I posted on the
[00:56:17] Ethereum plastic website was about the
[00:56:19] uh custody platforms and uh just overall
[00:56:24] custody platforms are what institutions
[00:56:26] and banks use for managing their keys
[00:56:29] and keys for their customers for crypto
[00:56:31] coins
[00:56:33] and uh so these platforms are uh what
[00:56:38] institutions of banks are looking at
[00:56:39] whenever they start their journey into
[00:56:42] the blockchain space and 2026 is looking
[00:56:44] like a that's where most of the banks in
[00:56:46] at least the US and uh around the world
[00:56:49] are really going to start engaging with
[00:56:50] blockchains and so getting making sure
[00:56:53] Ethereum Classic is listed on uh the
[00:56:56] leading platforms uh has always been
[00:56:59] kind of the goal of Ethereum Classic
[00:57:01] co-op so we've been uh having meetings
[00:57:04] with the platforms that don't currently
[00:57:07] uh have Ethereum Classic listed and so
[00:57:10] hopefully in the coming year you'll see
[00:57:12] more announcements about uh these
[00:57:14] platforms that are supporting us and
[00:57:16] that way Ethereum Classic is uh one of
[00:57:18] the first coins in these institutions as
[00:57:22] they come online or they have access to
[00:57:24] them at least
[00:57:26] and this is also uh I guess my other big
[00:57:29] priority for next year is going to be
[00:57:30] around crosschain interoperability so
[00:57:34] looking at the same thing for uh layer
[00:57:36] zero and uh chain link and other uh
[00:57:42] platforms that are out there that are
[00:57:43] doing interoperability that are uh
[00:57:47] would help Ethereum Classic bridge to
[00:57:49] the rest of the world a lot easier so we
[00:57:51] can be a less of our own island and a
[00:57:53] lot of these uh follow the singleton
[00:57:57] pattern of you can deploy on any chain
[00:57:59] since uh we have create 2 it's you
[00:58:02] deploy the contracts they go to the
[00:58:04] right places and then uh you stand up
[00:58:06] infrastructure on the back end to
[00:58:07] support it. Uh similar to what we have
[00:58:10] with the catacomb wallet uh it would be
[00:58:12] the same for the other ones. So starting
[00:58:14] to look at how to expand into those as
[00:58:15] well in the next year.
[00:58:21] >> Awesome.
[00:58:22] Yeah, I think there's a lot of exciting
[00:58:24] things to look forward to next year. Um,
[00:58:26] both in Ethereum Classic specifically
[00:58:29] and also the wider EVM.
[00:58:31] Uh, like do primitives, cryptographic
[00:58:34] schemes, ZK passport. There's going to
[00:58:36] be a ton of awesome value ads coming to
[00:58:38] this network, not just within Ethereum
[00:58:41] Classic, but like inherited as always
[00:58:43] from from other chains as well. So, I'm
[00:58:46] looking forward to to what we can do
[00:58:49] together next year. And I think it's
[00:58:51] going to be uh
[00:58:53] uh for me at least one that's way more
[00:58:56] engaging. Um the last year I've been
[00:59:00] notably less active, but my situation
[00:59:04] has changed next year such that I'm
[00:59:06] going to be able to do a lot more
[00:59:07] contributing and as you've seen already
[00:59:10] uh I'm going to be picking up the
[00:59:12] mantle, so to speak.
[00:59:16] >> Excellent.
[00:59:18] >> Yeah. So, uh, we're coming up to an
[00:59:21] hour. If there's any other topics that
[00:59:24] anyone in the chat would like to cover,
[00:59:26] um, before we wrap up, then please feel
[00:59:28] free to jump in.
[00:59:30] Otherwise, we can, uh, say goodbye for
[00:59:34] this year and try and organize the next
[00:59:36] call.
[00:59:40] >> Awesome. Thank you. Thank you guys. Um,
[00:59:43] have a great year.
[00:59:44] >> Yeah. Thank you guys.
[00:59:46] >> Yeah. Thanks everyone. See you next
[00:59:47] year.
[00:59:48] >> Yeah. Thanks everyone. And uh yeah, this
[00:59:51] is the last community call of 2025 and
[00:59:54] we'll see you guys next year in 2026.
[00:59:56] Hopefully everyone has an awesome
[00:59:58] holiday period and see you next time.
[01:00:02] Take care. Bye-bye.
