---
number: 43
description: ETC Community Call 043 — EIP-1559 Discussion (Continued)
date: 2025-12-05
time: 1500 UTC
location: Zoom
joinLink: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88394623805
youtube: FtgqlsATEe0
hosts:
  - Community Member Istora
greenRoom:
  time: 1400 UTC
  location: "ETC Discord #community-calls"
  joinLink: https://ethereumclassic.org/discord
---

## Context

This document is a raw archival record of a community discussion.

It is provided for historical reference only and does **not** represent
decisions, consensus, endorsements, or official positions of the
Ethereum Classic network.

Attendance was voluntary and limited. The call began with no attendees
and proceeded as a small, informal discussion.

Statements reflect individual participant opinions expressed during the call.
The presence or absence of agreement does **not** imply network-level
dispute or consensus.

References to proposals during the call do **not** imply ECIP status,
acceptance, or implementation readiness.

Readers are encouraged to consult the recording directly.

---

## Topics Listed at Start of Call

- Continued discussion of EIP-1559–style mechanisms on Ethereum Classic
- Discussion of Olympia governance concepts (ECIP-1113)
- Considerations around miner incentives and transaction fee handling
- Exploratory discussion only; no decisions proposed or taken

---

## Call 043 — Transcript

[00:00:01] Hello and welcome to Athereum Classic community call number 43. Today is the 5th of December 2025. As usual, please
[00:00:08] remember we're going to post this call on YouTube. So YouTube YouTube, so let's be excellent to each other. This week
[00:00:14] we'll be continuing the discussion about implementing EIP1559, a compatible mechanism for Ethereum
[00:00:20] Classic. In our previous call, the Olympia authors agreed to dive a bit deeper into ECIP 1113, Olympia's
[00:00:28] proposed governance system. Before we dive into this topic, I just wanted to start by mentioning that a pull request
[00:00:34] for ECIP 1120 has been created. 1120 is
[00:00:39] authored by myself, Histora, and ETC developer Diego. 1120 outlines a vision for a minimally complex 1559- like
[00:00:46] implementation that returns all the feasts of miners with a simple algorithmic protocol native mechanism.
[00:00:52] More on this ECIP in perhaps a future call. Since we've already agreed to have this call focus on 1113, let's make the
[00:00:59] best use of the time and talk about that. So, um yeah, we have on the call
[00:01:06] weedarten. Would you like to say hello? Yeah, hello. Uh it's been a while. Uh
[00:01:11] I'm glad to be back on one of these calls. Uh I would be glad to contribute uh my thoughts to uh this discussion.
[00:01:18] I'm not uh I wouldn't say that I'm technical in the in the sense of the uh the chain itself in terms of the uh the
[00:01:26] you know in terms of implementations, but I am able to generally understand what EIPs mean and how they might affect
[00:01:33] the uh decentralized finance sector on a given chain. So I I feel like my I might
[00:01:39] have some valuable things to say on that. Awesome. And you've been around with the
[00:01:45] uh ETC ecosystem for a number of years, I guess, and have been on previous calls, so it's good to have you back.
[00:01:53] Thank you. And thank you for continuing to host these. It's it's a pleasure to have you.
[00:01:59] Absolutely. Um yeah, I think it's going to be increasingly important in the coming months and next year specifically
[00:02:07] because of this uh this debate that's unfolding about 1559. And I guess just
[00:02:12] to bring you up to speed and others listening that uh so far we've had one proposal in the form of the Olympia set
[00:02:20] of proposals which is um basically implementing 1559
[00:02:26] by redirecting the base fee to a treasury system. And the idea of this
[00:02:33] call was hopefully to get more in depth about how that treasury system is going to be governed. And uh we were hoping to
[00:02:40] get the author of that proposal, Chris Murpher, on the call. Uh I believe he
[00:02:46] was supposed to join, but maybe he'll join a bit later as he did last time. But in the meantime, I guess I can put
[00:02:54] my thoughts forward and maybe we can discuss between us two about uh the pros
[00:03:00] and cons of this approach. But so I I didn't listen to the last uh call. Could you please resume like what
[00:03:06] Chris Mercer shared last time just generally uh what his you know what he had to say and how he felt about other
[00:03:14] people uh in regards to his own proposal. Yeah, let me just pull up the uh
[00:03:22] there's an AI generated summary if I can find a community call last week. Yeah,
[00:03:29] so this is community call 42. The key takeaways are we discussed 1459
[00:03:35] and four options were considered including um for the distribution mechanism like smoothing over blocks. So
[00:03:43] just for an overview, 1559 adds this new type of transaction called uh type 2
[00:03:50] transaction which allows end users to instead of doing an auction for the gas
[00:03:57] price, the gas um fee that they'd be paying for transactions, which can be difficult to figure out like often
[00:04:05] people are overpaying. So instead of that 1559 introduces this base fee
[00:04:10] algorithmic system which allows you to more predictably price your transactions
[00:04:16] and this provides better user experience and the result of that is that there's a base fee where transaction
[00:04:23] um they're all priced the same basically and that fee would normally go to miners
[00:04:29] in the current system but for technical reasons they cannot go to miners in the
[00:04:34] same block. um on Ethereum Classic for
[00:04:40] there's some game theory problems with giving it to miners directly in the same block. So Olympia on on on Ethereum they
[00:04:47] burn it. Uh on Ethereum Classic we can't do that because it affects the uh
[00:04:53] emission curve. If we burn things it messes with the economics and also in my
[00:04:58] opinion we want to incentivize miners as much as possible. So burning that would kind of reduce the security budget when
[00:05:05] we could in fact be returning that to miners and making it more uh increasing the incentive to mine Ethereum Clin. So,
[00:05:12] Ethereum, sorry, Olympia, which is Chris Mur's set of proposals, ECIP 1111 to
[00:05:19] 1115, suggests that these funds are redirected to a treasury with an onchain voting
[00:05:25] mechanism, and that would basically be a DAO that has proposals and funds
[00:05:32] projects. So, the uh those fees would be used not to fund mining, but to fund
[00:05:39] development in the ecosystem. Another approach is an algorithmic return to
[00:05:45] miners um over the course of a number of blocks. So that sidesteps the issue is returning
[00:05:51] all the funds to the miners in the same block by kind of dividing up the base fee and giving it to miners over let's
[00:05:58] say 100 blocks in the future. Uh and basically we were getting near
[00:06:05] the end of that previous call into the details of the Olympia governance
[00:06:12] system which in my opinion are kind of important to get like a good understanding of before we determine
[00:06:17] whether or not Olympia itself is feasible. So unless there's like at least one decent proposal for a
[00:06:25] governance system that can bootstrap this new DAO,
[00:06:30] um it's going to be difficult to figure out how we can actually deploy that in a
[00:06:35] protocol neutral and sufficiently decentralized way.
[00:06:43] I think it's interesting um how you talk about uh the the governance system
[00:06:48] because it's quite uh it does quite present a few num a number of challenges
[00:06:54] because we're talking about uh having a a centralized way of get giving funds out
[00:07:02] but at the same time you know we also want to it's centralized in the sense that the funds are being pulled
[00:07:07] centrally and so you know things onchain can be decentralized in a sense, but um
[00:07:13] what makes things decentralized is how you delegate the power over that uh that fund. And so, uh there's there is a lot
[00:07:21] of possibilities that you know you could look into, but uh you know, right now
[00:07:27] from what I can tell, it's a quite unspecified and still very up for debate at the minimum uh this uh this specific
[00:07:34] part of those proposals. And when I look into it, there's a few options. The main
[00:07:39] option would be to give power to uh all ETC holders. Is it like giving a a vote
[00:07:44] specifically to uh depending on you know how much etc you have you can use that to vote or it
[00:07:51] could be uh by the miners for example there's quite a few options and so it
[00:07:57] would be important that before anything like this like actually gets implemented that these are are properly uh debated
[00:08:03] through because whatever system if there is a governance system uh that does uh
[00:08:09] end up being implemented for this you would have to consider uh all of the
[00:08:14] implications of what system you're implementing and what the alternatives might have might offer and obviously the
[00:08:21] alternative of not having a governance system and not having a central fund uh
[00:08:27] in in response to that as sort of uh a comparison. You you need to look at
[00:08:32] every single at all the details before you come uh to to a conclusion. But um
[00:08:37] the general I I understand why uh Christopher Mercer has brought up this uh this proposal and his uh his
[00:08:46] positioning in regards to the co-op no longer kind of existing or it exists on a lower low power mode, but there's
[00:08:52] there isn't really that branch of the uh outreach anymore. It's really just a small entity now. and um the the the
[00:09:00] kind of wanting or the willingness to kind of replace that or find a way to kind of move the protocol forward. But I
[00:09:07] do I I continue to always say that I believe in the free market and in free market principles. And if there's really
[00:09:14] a demand and a need for changes to the uh uh the protocol and it requires
[00:09:21] funding for for developers then I think that Ethereum Classic if we don't implement uh bureaucracy then no matter
[00:09:29] what the if we do manage to find a solution through the free market it will be the most efficient uh and the most
[00:09:34] costefficient and it will be uh from a member of the community or members of
[00:09:40] the community that have been around for a long time and it would it would be a a collective effort that would require
[00:09:47] collective participation instead of uh basically what is being proposed through
[00:09:52] the ECIP11 and EC through ECIP 1114
[00:09:58] is effectively uh taxing transactions. I know that uh that is up for debate and I
[00:10:04] will I will I I will concede that but uh to from my perspective as someone as a
[00:10:10] user of of ETC and as someone who uh likes to build on ETC and who sees a big future a long-term future in ETC um
[00:10:20] those be when when users uh make transactions they expect that when
[00:10:25] whatever fees that they're paying goes directly to the miners in order to secure the blockchain to
[00:10:31] make sure that that transaction is as legitimate as they as it is. They do not
[00:10:36] want to have to contribute to a central treasury. And no matter how you might want to frame it in but if we make type
[00:10:44] two transactions automatically contribute to a treasury, there is some deviation of funds that could be going
[00:10:51] to minors. You could be saying that oh well the funds would either be burned. the that there is funds that either
[00:10:58] could be that could either not exist or go to miners uh and that those funds are instead
[00:11:04] going to a pool that now has to have a whole new set of bureaucracy sort of implemented in order to manage that and
[00:11:11] I don't see why uh miners or Ethereum Classic users would see this as a
[00:11:17] beneficial system especially when uh they've in the past rejected very similar proposals and very similar
[00:11:23] systems uh that wouldffect effectively have a governance system or some kind of
[00:11:28] central funding system that is that uses taxes specifically on transactions to uh
[00:11:34] to fund it. So, uh, personally, I don't support these proposals, but, um, I I
[00:11:40] would like to at least at the minimum allow for further discussion and really, uh, get to fully understand the
[00:11:46] proposals in their full depth and then put them up against whatever say alternative proposal you might say. And
[00:11:52] I think Atora, you put up a proposal. I wouldn't say it's sort of a counter proposal, but it's more a another path
[00:11:58] forward that we could take. I don't know if you would agree with that, but would you say that it's sort of a different um
[00:12:05] a different approach to to the same kind of problem or at least to the problem of uh type two transactions?
[00:12:13] Yeah, exactly. The the goal of uh 120 is to figure out what's like the bare
[00:12:19] minimum complexity that we can possibly find a path to in order to support this
[00:12:26] new type 2 transaction. And that is without any additional like contracts or
[00:12:31] without any additional state uh onchain. So it's like
[00:12:37] uh yeah there's we we can probably go into more of the
[00:12:42] technical details on a later call but yeah the general approach is that we wanted to find something that doesn't
[00:12:49] add complexity and is something that is pretty easy to explain relative to more
[00:12:55] complex systems. And I just wanted to make a few comments on your last piece.
[00:13:01] Um, so yeah, I agree that further discussion is definitely necessary and I
[00:13:08] just hope we can have this discussion without feeling like either side of the
[00:13:13] debate is necessarily rushing or trying to push or announce things before
[00:13:18] they're actually decided. I think that might poison the discussion if we kind of pressure ourselves into going one
[00:13:25] path or another because of like external uh things happening uh in in the the
[00:13:32] social side and really we should focus on what's technically best for Ethereum Classic. It is indeed true that similar
[00:13:39] systems have been rejected in the past. There were two treasury proposals in the past that were rejected. One of them
[00:13:46] more recently that might be in memory was in 2020 I believe and that was a
[00:13:52] large debate and a large corpus of arguments against the idea of
[00:13:57] a protocol air treasury which Olympia also is.
[00:14:02] Miners won't see it as being beneficial is absolutely correct and I just don't see how miners would vote for a treasury
[00:14:09] proposal that takes away funds that would otherwise be going to them. It is a kind of tax in that compared to the
[00:14:18] current system all of those transaction fees are going to the miners directly
[00:14:23] and it is kind of changing the contract. It's kind of I wouldn't say it's a rugpull necessarily but it is kind of
[00:14:29] like hey the miners have agreed that they're mining this chain and they're expecting all these transactions to go
[00:14:35] to them in the future. the future sort of security of the chain will eventually rely more on transaction fees and miners
[00:14:42] have kind of made this investment in hardware and it will be quite a difficult cell I think to get them to
[00:14:48] minor chain that undermines that investment. I think the free market is definitely the way to go. And the way
[00:14:54] I'd like to see things move forward with these kind of Dows is deploy one, right?
[00:15:00] See if it works. Get funding. It doesn't have to be a lot. Just show that the process works and then if you've proven
[00:15:07] that it works and that, you know, these Dows can actually achieve what they're claiming to, then we can think about
[00:15:13] integrating one in the protocol. But so far I haven't seen one that's actually
[00:15:18] uh successful, gets engagement, and isn't gameable in a way that would make it secure enough to put into the
[00:15:25] protocol like that. So yeah, those are my thoughts on what you just said.
[00:15:34] Well, I I'll pick up quickly and I want to let Justin Jay pick in because I saw him turn off his turn on his microphone
[00:15:40] earlier if he's interested. But I just wanted to add quickly that um you I I agree with what you're saying and and
[00:15:46] what you said uh regarding the free market is correct because what is trying to be implemented through
[00:15:54] uh ECIP 111 uh 1111 uh and and 1114
[00:16:00] is effectively a a centralized or at least not a centralized but a treasury
[00:16:06] system that uh that will that is supposed to be decentralized. But um the the what makes something
[00:16:14] decentralized is who is voluntary participation and uh you know people can
[00:16:22] participate in Bitcoin, people can participate in Ethereum Classic or they can choose another chain that's what
[00:16:28] makes it decentralized. But if for whatever reason Ethereum Classic is uh an important blockchain in the future
[00:16:34] and people are sort of forced to use it because it is advantageous over other
[00:16:40] mechanisms, they will inherently be forced to use a blockchain that has this
[00:16:47] system and in so if this system for whatever reason is detrimental and
[00:16:53] doesn't position Ethereum Classic in the same way in the future because people are looking for a real free market
[00:16:58] proponent uh as sort of a real blockchain that has real long-term uh sustainable
[00:17:06] uh you know using proof of work using smart contracts uh that is the original
[00:17:11] Ethereum if this is something that people want they may feel that that
[00:17:16] might be poisoned by having a treasury on chain but I counter that in saying
[00:17:22] that if anybody who believes that a treasury some kind of central fund
[00:17:30] funding that specifically for protocol is not necessarily a bad idea but it
[00:17:36] should be done using smart contracts onchain anybody is allowed to go and do
[00:17:42] that I could decide to do that uh anybody the the people who are making Olympia could decide to do that or
[00:17:47] anybody else in the world could decide that tomorrow they're going to build a uh you know what they're talking about a
[00:17:53] government a governance system onchain where they are actively seeking for people who are have an collective
[00:17:59] interest in funding what whatever it is that these ECIPs are proposing to fix.
[00:18:06] And so if there are if we need these solutions to say fund uh further etc
[00:18:13] development at the core level or uh whatever it is that that they need the funding for there will be free market
[00:18:21] proponents that will come into the game and that and it difficult for them to
[00:18:27] come together and collectively pay for that. That's what Ethereum Classic is designed to do. And so it's kind of
[00:18:34] strange for us to kind of mediate away from from that to kind of a more traditional kind of bureau bureaucratic
[00:18:42] kind of way of funding things when instead we could allow the free market to decide what is best for the chain and
[00:18:51] that will ultimately lead to the best outcome for both the users, the miners and the people who have a long-term
[00:18:58] investment in Ethereum Classic. So, uh, I I would like to let Justin Jay pitch
[00:19:03] in, but just generally, it's better to keep ETC OG. And, uh, I
[00:19:11] really I really think that we could lose some of our status if we allow for a Treasury system on ETC. I I like I
[00:19:18] prefer to be a little blunt sometimes, but that's that's how I feel. Justin J, are you there?
[00:19:24] Yeah. What's going on, guys? Hello, Justin. Hello.
[00:19:30] Hey, I can hear you. Hello. Oh, hi. Hey. How's it going?
[00:19:35] Sorry. I Yeah, it's going all right. I've been listening to you guys and uh like I I haven't uh reviewed the whole
[00:19:42] ECIP set, but uh like I got a gist of everything cuz I've been kind of busy doing other stuff. But uh yeah, I think
[00:19:50] uh I don't know. My my my suggestion with that would be probably the the clients somehow but then like the the
[00:19:57] funds should probably yeah stay with the miners like you know for now. Yeah. I don't know exact I don't know exactly uh
[00:20:05] how the process uh like technically it would be uh handled but then uh my my
[00:20:12] concern is with uh just the
[00:20:19] the way the way the the this ECIP is being handled is just kind of it's kind of odd and the the what what is being
[00:20:26] suggested for the ECIP I guess. So does that make sense?
[00:20:33] Yeah. Could you um uh just for the listeners, Justin, could you uh
[00:20:38] introduce yourself a little bit and explain how your uh your role in ETC is?
[00:20:44] Okay. And then also a role. I don't really have a role.
[00:20:49] I don't really have a role in I just uh yeah, I've been I've been in with EDC for a bit. Maybe since 20 Yeah. 2017,
[00:20:58] 2016 around there. But then I only got active on on social media after after
[00:21:05] maybe yeah 17 18 or whatever. But yeah, just I follow You've been helping
[00:21:11] you've been helping with the Discord, right? Yes, I have. Uh just trying to do my
[00:21:16] best to uh keep everything organized but yeah it kind of gets out of hand sometimes and uh yeah it's just uh maybe
[00:21:24] it's personnel thing but uh it is what it is you know we just push forward that's it.
[00:21:30] Yeah your your contributions are much appreciated. Oh thank you but yeah
[00:21:37] you mentioned that you you feel that the ECIP is being handled uh in a strange
[00:21:43] way or something like that. Did you elaborate on that?
[00:21:48] Uh, yeah. Well, I I it should be more uh of like a a
[00:21:57] discussion topic, not like a force. Okay, we're going to be moving to this kind of thing. And I seen some ads and
[00:22:02] then I have this system I made that it just picks up like the news and stuff and then it just like what what it reads
[00:22:09] is just weird. Like it's uh yeah, I don't know. Yeah, I I Yeah, I don't mean
[00:22:14] to. Yeah, I don't want to I totally agree and it's one of the the
[00:22:20] main concerns I have with how this ECIP has been marketed is that it's been
[00:22:26] announced as if it's a done deal, as if it's definitely happening as if we're implementing this Olympia system. um
[00:22:34] announcements have been made on certain websites like coin market cap uh and and it's like
[00:22:40] this kind of undermines the whole process that's supposed to exist in order to gain consensus. And if it it
[00:22:48] really risks creating like bad outcomes if we do not all come to the same page
[00:22:54] and and kind of dis disregard each other's ideas about how things should be going because
[00:23:01] um yeah you really need everyone to be in agreement for these talks to be clean
[00:23:09] for sure. Yeah. Like it it just there should be more unity but like I've been in etc for a bit. I I know how it is,
[00:23:16] but it just Yeah, it is what it is, right? Yeah, it is indeed.
[00:23:22] Uh yeah, so thank you for uh joining the call and um yeah, it's great to have uh
[00:23:28] the voices of our contributors heard. So, thank you. No, thank you guys. You guys been doing
[00:23:34] a lot. I've been trying to keep up with you guys, but you know, I'm not uh I guess technically advanced as you guys,
[00:23:40] but yeah, doing my best. Yeah, it it is a complicated topic and uh
[00:23:46] that that does create some barriers, but it doesn't prevent people from from
[00:23:52] getting their voices across. So, I'm glad you did decide to Well, for sure.
[00:23:58] Um just to pick up on a thread that we got mentioned before and I wanted to
[00:24:04] reinforce that which is the uh first the idea that the free market
[00:24:11] um should be the way we do this and and launching Dows. Um the issue is actually not that there's no funding. In fact
[00:24:19] only a couple years ago bit main committed $10 million US of ETC which is still sitting in a multi-ID contract. So
[00:24:25] the issue is not the funding itself, it's how those funds are distributed. And in fact, the Olympia proposal is not
[00:24:32] going to be getting that much in terms of funding because of the the base fee being quite low at the moment. We're talking like 50k US per year at least
[00:24:40] currently. So there's no like critical funding operations that it can be
[00:24:47] achieving in the next let's say short term. So that's one thing. And that
[00:24:52] means there's competition. There's there's time to create the best possible
[00:24:57] DAO if that's what you want to do to distribute funds on chain first and then basically try to petition Bitmain to get
[00:25:05] some funding in order to prove that your DAO is good enough at least for that.
[00:25:11] And I think the bar for having it as a protocol level should be much higher than that. Secondly, let's just talk about the
[00:25:18] problem uh that you alluded to way with governance. And here's a super simple
[00:25:23] example. Right now, there's not a ton of people actively involved in ETC. Um
[00:25:31] let's say this Dow was launched next year as was planned by Chris Mus's proposal and it's initially bootstrapped
[00:25:38] with some kind of voting proposal, some kind of voting system. Now, it wouldn't be a coin vote. Let's say it's a some
[00:25:45] kind of reputation system and let's say it's perfect reputation system imaginable. Let's give them the benefit
[00:25:50] of the doubt and say that only good actors to start off with are given this uh ability to vote on proposals and
[00:25:58] importantly upgrade the Dow code itself cuz that's part of the proposal. There needs to be a way to upgrade the
[00:26:05] governance system itself. And let's say in 3 years time there's
[00:26:11] even fewer people and a handful of those people decide okay we need to upgrade the DAO and we're going to turn it into
[00:26:17] a multi-IG and we're going to basically own the DAO forever going forward. Now, that's
[00:26:24] something that's totally possible in the paradigm of uh what's been proposed in
[00:26:29] Olympia and it's something that is obviously not compatible with the decentralized requirements for Ethereum
[00:26:36] Classic and there's no proposal there's no talk about how that kind of scenario can be prevented and in fact I think
[00:26:42] that kind of scenario is unpreventable in a a simple
[00:26:48] um like the issue is how you seed the original holders and you can't really do
[00:26:55] an ICO, you can't do a pre-sale. Uh you're going to have to figure out how
[00:27:00] to ensure that not just at the start but on an ongoing process, you do not end up
[00:27:08] in a situation where a handful of people effectively control the ability to upgrade the Dow. And that's something
[00:27:14] I've not seen uh an answer to yet. And I was hoping that in this call we could get more into detail on that with
[00:27:20] regards to 1113. Uh but yeah, those questions remain
[00:27:25] unanswered and until they are answered, I don't think we can look at this as a serious proposal to be honest.
[00:27:37] Yeah, I agree.
[00:27:45] I'm just going to say uh that there's that I'm going to play maybe not devil's
[00:27:51] advocate but uh Chris Mercer's advocate and say that if if he was here he may he
[00:27:58] may join. He would counter that by saying that uh that the propos that it wouldn't be just like a few people uh
[00:28:04] managing it. He would he would probably say something like uh it would be a governance system that incorporates
[00:28:11] everyone down probably to the token holder. But uh you know it it is an interesting discussion to have about
[00:28:17] governance because for example if you had so as you had your example of just
[00:28:22] having you know only the fair actors vote on it. that's not like a realistic
[00:28:28] system and even if it was, you're right, it would pro it there's a real chance that it could devolve into the future
[00:28:34] and just opening that door and the possibility to that is bad. But um then
[00:28:39] if you if you take it to the to a more to the more realistic scenario of the
[00:28:44] fact that you're taxing effectively miners and you're taxing coin hold uh
[00:28:49] any any participants that use the transa uh the transaction network on etc. uh
[00:28:56] the more transactions they do, the more they get taxed and the more uh and the miners effectively the more they mine
[00:29:02] the more they get taxed. It's it's it's a it's kind of it's it's it's not that they get taxed more by their their
[00:29:10] mining, but it's just that the overall amount of tax does increase if they're mining more and that does create
[00:29:16] additional contributions uh to the to the treasury. Um but what's interesting
[00:29:22] is that if you were to implement the system where it would be all token
[00:29:28] holders, it would be very difficult to have uh everybody part like a very good
[00:29:34] quorum and a very good representation from everybody around the chain because people aren't necessarily going to to go
[00:29:42] and vote with their wallet. and you would have to have a new system to be able to vote with uh tokens that you
[00:29:48] already have in your wallet that doesn't involve uh any transactions such as moving the tokens. So that's a whole new
[00:29:54] like question. How do you sign for that those transactions track which ETC have been have been used? Like what if I vote
[00:30:01] for something and then I move the ETC to another wallet on a on the same proposal the next day. You have to there's all
[00:30:07] these questions that that begin you open a whole new box of questions when you do that. And then and then you consider
[00:30:14] well okay maybe then we don't want to have every ETC holder be a participant. Then you have to decide well who do we
[00:30:20] give priority on voting? Do we give it to the miners? Well is that such a great idea because then there's no
[00:30:26] representation from the users of the chain from the from the from the DeFi users or from the people uh that are
[00:30:32] just transacting between each other and there's no representation from other proponents uh such as cor uh entities.
[00:30:39] It's just the miners and then vice versa. if you make it some kind of onchain uh Dow where people sort of buy
[00:30:46] into it and then they kind of have control over it, which you know this sounds terrible, but that's as an alternative to um
[00:30:54] uh uh like giving every coin holder uh veto power. If you were to make it so
[00:31:01] that people are effectively buying into it and then that's how they gain control. Well, that creates sort of a a
[00:31:07] whole new box of problems where uh people who have tokens who are paying the taxes are not having any
[00:31:13] representation and at the same time there's sort of a group of elites who are making all the decisions because
[00:31:19] maybe they bought in early and they have more power. So basically what what what I'm trying to say is that if you were to
[00:31:26] implement EIP 111 through 1114,
[00:31:31] you would have to answer a whole lot of questions. And so far, every question that I put forward and I know other
[00:31:38] people have put forward has been answered in sort of like a chat GBT little matrix box where there's like the
[00:31:44] small question and then like a you know like a like a 10-word answer to like this the solution to all of it. And then
[00:31:50] if you ask further questions, you know, you're just some kind of mad hater matt. So that's my experience so far with
[00:31:56] these EIPs. So, you know, I wouldn't I wouldn't, you know, go around saying, "Oh, we should take this seriously or
[00:32:02] say that seriously." I would say that it's more that we need to educate everybody who has a say on these things
[00:32:09] about the details of each proposal and if there's missing parts to the proposal such as aka the governance, I've been
[00:32:15] asking for a while. uh you know and it's it's interesting because we hear that these things are moving to mortar test
[00:32:21] net like that's what the announcements are right but there's no there's no information anywhere about what's um being published
[00:32:28] or what like where exactly it is and there's no that would I I you would obviously think that they must be
[00:32:35] putting like the Olympia uh DAO on Mordor so that they could do the testing
[00:32:40] of the governance but there's like there's no information about the governance anywhere so there's there's a
[00:32:46] few missing points that I would personally like to see filled and then we can have a real full discussion about
[00:32:53] you know what what would this actually mean uh in the future. But so far what I what I see is uh if the if this is truly
[00:33:00] you know the way that I that from what I understand it is going to be implemented on type 2 transactions then it does sort
[00:33:08] of implement attacks on miners and it does implement a bit of attacks on users
[00:33:13] of the chain. So ultimately uh it it's not going to be uh
[00:33:20] generally beneficial and seen as a free market move for etc. So we're I I hope
[00:33:27] that we can have like further discussions and that in the next call we can have you know many more people. I
[00:33:33] think that the more people and the more people in the discussions and the more recorded discussions that we have, the
[00:33:38] more we can just show how uh how people feel about uh this this proposal. If
[00:33:44] they think it's good, then we can really get a good tally. Um you know, you don't it we don't have to vote, you know, on a
[00:33:51] doubt, but we could do an informal vote, you know, just to get an idea of how people feel. And some people might be
[00:33:58] free feel free to call out that vote as being, you know, a scummy. But we we can organize and we can we we can talk about
[00:34:05] these things. And that's that's what I think we should focus on in the coming months. And I appreciate Histora for,
[00:34:11] you know, I think it's the third month in a row now that we have a call. Um and I'm glad that we're getting back into
[00:34:17] it. And I'm here and ready to do whatever uh is necessary to so that we can continue having these discussions
[00:34:23] regularly.
[00:34:30] Yeah, for sure. Yeah, I'm Well, if
[00:34:37] Yeah, I'm trying to make uh something for the like I guess etc., but it's taking a bit cuz uh yeah, my uh
[00:34:46] my technical skills, but it's coming along.
[00:34:51] Oh, yeah. Would you what what's the nature of that? Sorry.
[00:34:57] Oh, of my project. Yeah.
[00:35:03] Oh. Uh, okay. Uh, well, it's it's a
[00:35:09] Okay. I I'll give you some It's going to be it's going to be there's going to be NFT, but then obviously I'm not going to
[00:35:15] do it's not going to be like the ones that happened before, I guess, or whatever. Hopefully. Um, and it's just
[00:35:23] it's it's uh something to uh make community, I guess, right? To g gather
[00:35:29] community and stuff like that for for me anyways. And uh it has uh it's going to have some
[00:35:35] AI stuff in there, so it might be uh interesting.
[00:35:40] Yeah, you got to have the AI these days. I'm a big fan. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, it's amazing. like this.
[00:35:47] I I I wish uh I hope everybody that comes into etc knows about AI. That'd be awesome.
[00:35:56] Right. I was just on a the the call with Cody uh before this call. There's like a
[00:36:03] 1 hour before we have the green room if you'd like to join us next time for an offline chat. But he was mentioning about his efforts with the new client
[00:36:10] that is in a work in progress which is a Scala based Ethereum classic client and
[00:36:16] he's basically used exclusively Agentic coding to build this thing to upgrade it
[00:36:23] from where it was a few years ago and it's now syncing with Ethereum Ethereum Classic mainet. So, it's amazing what we
[00:36:30] can do with these tools and it's it it it really gives a lot of hope for
[00:36:37] Ethereum Classic and projects that don't have necessarily tons of developers. We actually won't need them anymore in the
[00:36:43] future because we can get agents to do a lot of this uh I guess monkey work that would previously require a lot of time
[00:36:49] and coding. So, yeah, the maintenance. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's actually really good for
[00:36:55] Ethereum Classic. Yes. Yeah. And I didn't know I didn't know uh
[00:37:01] Cody Burns is uh was that his client the Fukui or something like that? Is that the one you're talking about?
[00:37:07] Yeah. I didn't know that was a Yeah, that would that has AI integrated in there or sorry, was it made?
[00:37:16] He used AI to build it. Wow.
[00:37:21] Yeah. Wow. It can it can do that? That's pretty neat. Yeah. Well, I'm sure
[00:37:26] I'm sure he put his input in there as well, right? Cuz I don't think Yeah, unless he's using a
[00:37:32] pretty good tiered uh AI. Yeah. So, definitely the architecture and
[00:37:39] directing what needs to be done, it still is specialist knowledge that that Cody has. So, it's not like anyone,
[00:37:47] but it definitely saved him a lot of time. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Wow. I've been looking into uh if you're
[00:37:54] if you're interested in AI coding, take a look at uh Claude code, which is like the CLI coding editor, which is really
[00:38:02] powerful and Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But then like I don't I don't like those CLI editor cuz that's
[00:38:07] I don't know. I I don't use those cuz I apparently you can change over your whole
[00:38:13] like your all that stuff. You need to take precautions. You need to take precautions. Yeah.
[00:38:18] But it's it's quite safely. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
[00:38:24] Interesting. Yeah. That's that's awesome. Yeah. I and I I agree with uh we goten
[00:38:30] about um getting more people involved and also getting some kind of voting
[00:38:36] mechanism set up even if it's just like a list of active participants and their opinions because it's really difficult
[00:38:43] to judge where the community is at at any given time on any particular topic
[00:38:50] based on like who's watching videos or liking tweets. So, it'd be great if we
[00:38:56] could somehow put together some like informal voting system just to get a a
[00:39:01] kind of check of where the wind is blowing on some of these topics.
[00:39:06] And and yeah, um the idea of doing like all token holders voting on stuff is
[00:39:13] probably not going to work, not least because there's too many people. And I
[00:39:18] don't think Ethereum Classic can actually handle like every single token fold, every single holder voting on
[00:39:24] every single proposal. So there needed to be some kind of like representative system or something like that. Like it's
[00:39:30] just not I don't think you can scale to give everyone representation in that way. And if you were not doing that, I
[00:39:37] mean, even if you um did a simple coin vote, it's still not like a fair representation of
[00:39:44] everyone. Like, why should some whale that's just bought a bunch of ETC have more decision-making power than some
[00:39:51] like less wealthy but a thousand times more involved
[00:39:57] guy that doesn't even hold ETC, for example, or perhaps holds a tiny amount. like surely
[00:40:04] it should be representation based on something other than just the amount of etc you hold and that's kind
[00:40:10] of what's I guess being alluded to in 1113 but there's no concrete proposals and yeah we really need to you know show
[00:40:19] that at least one version of this is possible before moving forward and definitely before announcing all this stuff.
[00:40:27] Um, I did like at the end of the the last call, I believe November,
[00:40:35] uh, earlier in November, Chris made a another set of commits to the Olympia
[00:40:44] ECIPs and it was kind of like a checkpoint and I made a comment in in response to that that hasn't been
[00:40:51] responded to yet. So, I thought I could just mention my questions at the end of this call. Uh, and maybe if you have
[00:40:59] comments, we can talk about them. Um, or maybe wrap up after. But I had like five
[00:41:07] questions I think need answering uh before we can really uh
[00:41:14] agree to move forward with Olympia. Like I think they're they're pretty important. So question one is do you
[00:41:19] agree that a bootstrap governance and voting rights distribution system must be clearly defined in ECIP 1113.
[00:41:28] Question two is do you agree that validating such a system requires real world test net deployment?
[00:41:34] Question three is do you agree that 111 depends on 1112 which depends on 1113
[00:41:40] and that these three ECIPs are interdependent. Question four, do you agree that 111
[00:41:45] should not be deployed unless 1113 is approved and viable? And then finally for the next call, I
[00:41:52] asked if you could propose some potential anti-LE or fair distribution systems. Um, for example, one of the
[00:41:59] mechanisms that was mentioned in the ECIP in 1113 was PAP based voting, but
[00:42:06] I'm not sure that's relevant because unless there's any real world events
[00:42:11] that Ethereum Classic participants are going to, who is the authority for that is one question and which events are we
[00:42:17] talking about is another. So, those are my five questions and they remain unanswered and I'm hoping that in order
[00:42:23] to progress the discussion on Olympia, we can get those questions answered.
[00:42:30] Uh I appreciate uh all the work that's been done uh in the GitHub discussion.
[00:42:36] There's been lots of discussion there and it's it's a very uh plain open like
[00:42:41] long form discussion about um uh basically different ECIPs. So it's a
[00:42:48] good place for people to go and put into words uh things that uh you might say on a call like this. Um and I I I just took
[00:42:57] a look at the questions at your post and I think that these are very basic uh very straightforward questions regarding
[00:43:04] uh what the implementation is going to look like and ultimately from my perspective
[00:43:10] uh if these questions can't be answered like in a in a at a even in a minimal
[00:43:16] technical specific way like I don't see how someone could then you know without
[00:43:21] even being able to answer those questions be able to implement and all of the things that you know they're talking about uh that have you know yet
[00:43:29] to be specified. It seems more like you know these are things that are being pushed to to be done but uh there's
[00:43:36] still a lot of lack of actual implementation specification and uh as I
[00:43:42] said earlier these things are supposed to be moving to Mordor test net. So, uh, I'm, you know, I'm yet I'm still I've
[00:43:48] still asked I actually asked that months ago, like where's can you send me like where's the implementation like
[00:43:53] information about this, but uh I'm I'm a I'm a very bad person to the person who
[00:43:59] made uh Olympia. So, I'm not um I'm not going to get those questions answered
[00:44:04] anytime soon, but I hope others can pursue uh those similar questions like the ones that you that you put forward.
[00:44:11] And uh I'm I'm personally uh I'll do what I can to you know step back from from the discussion and really just
[00:44:19] interject when I feel that it has some kind of effect on uh the DeFi space and
[00:44:24] the potential future of Ethereum Classic and specifically how how it fits into
[00:44:29] today's world. Um but I was going to ask you is um h can you please tell me a
[00:44:37] little bit more about the proposal that you have uh for countering it? So, how exactly do you plan to send um the uh
[00:44:45] back to the miners within without inside the same block? Like, is this still kind of up for debate and still figuring it
[00:44:51] out or have you or is there a previous implementation that you're referring to
[00:44:56] or is this a like a brand new implementation and and where's the progress on that?
[00:45:03] Yeah. So, uh, as I mentioned, there's an open pull request for 11120. Uh, in that
[00:45:09] PR is also a link to a research site which is ecip1120.dev.
[00:45:15] There's a lot more explanation and the current working rationale and current
[00:45:20] research tasks that are ongoing. There are some things that need to be finalized that will depend on like
[00:45:28] client resource constraints and that kind of stuff, but we more or less have a really good idea of what needs to be
[00:45:34] done. And the the mechanism for distributing fees back to miners is
[00:45:41] known as a a backwards looking stateless fee distribution. So this was originally
[00:45:48] proposed by Diego the maintainer of um of core guest and there is actually an
[00:45:55] implementation already in Bessu. So uh you can find the link of that within
[00:46:01] that documentation site that was done a couple years ago. Um, essentially all that's happening and we still need to
[00:46:08] figure out these exact variables, but over the course of let's say 50 blocks,
[00:46:15] a block gets mined and the base fee instead of being given to that individual miner is simply split up over
[00:46:20] the next 50 blocks and distributed equally to all the future miners. It's actually done by looking backwards. So
[00:46:28] there's technical reasons why it's done like this. It basically makes reorgs easier. Instead of having an accumulated
[00:46:35] value, you just look at the previous blocks and then take a distribution from those blocks.
[00:46:42] So the other question is do we have this as a a linear distribution or do we have
[00:46:49] some kind of decay curve? Uh but these are research questions that we'll
[00:46:54] hopefully have answered in the coming months. But basically it's it's a really
[00:47:00] quite simple implementation um that makes it compatible with Zerum
[00:47:05] Classic without burning the fees. We return it to miners and some pretty good academic research um that's gone into
[00:47:13] this mechanism. So it seems like this is the most simple approach and
[00:47:21] it's it's not that complicated to spec out currently. Um, this PR has been blocked
[00:47:29] uh by Chris Mercer. I made a pull request and he's claiming that it can't
[00:47:34] be published until we actually have all the values. But these are kind of ongoing research tasks that might take a
[00:47:40] few months. So hopefully we can at least get the work in progress version up on the uh ETC ECIP website, but until
[00:47:51] uh one of the other um ECIP maintainers uh approves it, then it will just remain
[00:47:58] on that ECIP1120.dev website, which you can also follow for
[00:48:03] updates. And there's also an article on there under um why not Olympia? And out there I I
[00:48:12] outline a number of arguments that we've partly covered in this call and more about why I think that having this uh
[00:48:20] this proposal isn't is is not the right path forward for the classic.
[00:48:35] I'm happy to answer any other questions you might have about 1120. That's I have
[00:48:40] I have some more time. Yeah, sorry. I'm just scrolling through
[00:48:45] the um the ECIP that you made just to see uh like what has been written and
[00:48:52] also uh why it's been not rejected but been held back. Um,
[00:48:59] I'm just curious uh two things. First, has um has the ECIPs for 11 uh one been
[00:49:07] past like have they been approved past this stage already? Uh in the sense I think I'm pretty sure
[00:49:13] it's it's kind of hard to tell. Would you be able to tell me those original sorry the the Olympia
[00:49:19] set? Yeah. The issue is the issue is not that they're being like progressed through
[00:49:26] the ECIP process. Like as as we've already discussed, the Olympia set
[00:49:31] already has many missing variables. Um, nonetheless, like in the spirit of like
[00:49:38] open discussion, those proposals have been allowed to be published on the website and they're in draft, which is
[00:49:44] one stage ahead of work in progress. and the ECIP 11120 is only a work in
[00:49:50] progress, but the issue is that it's been blocked from even being published. Right. But my but I guess my question
[00:49:57] then would be what in what way is your proposal uh less technically defined than the
[00:50:05] Olympia uh set of proposals? because from what I understand and from what I read um it's at a minimum it's the same
[00:50:13] if not yours has a little bit more uh like specific detail as how it it's going to be done at at a prop Olympia
[00:50:20] has a lot more open-ended questions than uh questions that would have just
[00:50:26] sending back to the miners which is effectively a continuation of what we have today just a little bit with a more
[00:50:33] spicy process u but yeah like like what's the difference in the technical specifications. Why would yours be not
[00:50:40] allowed but the others be allowed? Yeah, I I submitted it with the
[00:50:46] assumption that it would be approved because I don't see why it wouldn't be. Um I don't think there's any requirement
[00:50:53] to ensure that everything is finalized, especially when it's a work in progress.
[00:50:58] Like isn't that the point of a work in progress? You still have things that you need to finalize.
[00:51:03] But uh I guess Chris Mer the author of Olympia set proposals feels like that
[00:51:10] this is a requirement. So we'll see.
[00:51:19] So I'm just curious. Uh so this is for the ECIPs. Basically this just goes to the website
[00:51:25] and you see like what's what's uh what's drafts and which are implemented. Um, so
[00:51:32] it doesn't it it it's it's more just to see like what's uh what's been proposed
[00:51:37] and what's been defined as completed. Um, and so I assume that and I and as
[00:51:43] you said as you you assume that it would be approved I as I understand it that it
[00:51:48] would be um basically like a draft EIP in the same would it would be once it
[00:51:54] would be approved it would effectively be in the same uh range as the uh Olympia set. Is that correct?
[00:52:02] It it would actually be one stage less mature than Olympia. So the the process
[00:52:08] is WIP work in progress then draft then I believe it's final call and then it's
[00:52:15] approved and then after that it gets like implemented and then adopted into
[00:52:22] the protocol. So really this is at this stage it's saying like here's an idea
[00:52:27] let's let's make people aware that this is a thing and if people want to help contribute it and move it into draft
[00:52:33] status when it's ready we can we can do that. So it's more of like a signaling thing as opposed to any uh like by by
[00:52:42] proving it in work in progress it's it's by no means saying like this is going to happen. It's really just like listing on
[00:52:50] the website. So I just want to uh also confirm so
[00:52:55] that's so this is for the ECIP's website but if any changes that would be made to
[00:53:00] the chain would be made effectively through through the through a change to the client by effectively changing what
[00:53:07] the uh the the pointed uh the next upgrade. Correct.
[00:53:15] Yeah. So, so once an ECIP moves from final call to accepted, then the client
[00:53:23] maintainers can implement this like a a future block would be agreed upon to be
[00:53:29] an activation block and if all things go well then basically the
[00:53:35] the new code would start being implemented start being activated after
[00:53:41] that particular block and There's there's a whole kind of if if
[00:53:47] you're more if you're interested in the process, you can check out ECIP 1000 which explains in detail about how
[00:53:54] different stages are reached and how things are progressed and yeah it requires rough consensus to
[00:54:02] move from uh
[00:54:08] to to to become a natural thing in the clients shall we say and The ECIP
[00:54:14] process is is more whilst it is a formal way of coming to an agreement about what
[00:54:20] the protocol should how it should behave, it still relies on other things. It's
[00:54:27] not like an ultimate authority. Um because what if clients don't implement
[00:54:33] it? What if miners don't mine that chain? like it's only really
[00:54:39] a way for developers to say this is what we think should happen and it's up to
[00:54:44] miners and implementers and users to actually make that happen.
[00:54:50] So I'm just asking because if like for example your proposal or for the Olympia set of proposals were to move forward to
[00:54:57] the point where they're being published to the client at what point do the miners get like to decide what they
[00:55:03] accept and what they don't? I assume it's not when they even if they upgrade
[00:55:08] the client, they can change it. It's the decision point is whether or not they upgrade the client. Is that correct?
[00:55:16] Uh yeah. Well, ideally and in most
[00:55:22] in in in a functional system like it would not be the case that a client
[00:55:27] is updated to code that miners are not mining. like something has to go really
[00:55:32] wrong for client for miners to be like rejecting
[00:55:38] like like not upgrading like that's that's a DAO level that's an Ethereum classic chain split level problem
[00:55:44] because then you will have two clients out there and miners if there's a lot of them that don't want to upgrade that
[00:55:50] will cause a chain split. So really we never want to reach that point and this
[00:55:57] rough consensus mechanism where everyone's on board and everyone agrees to do it is basically the best way we
[00:56:03] figured out as to avoid that situation. So yes, it's true that miners ultimately
[00:56:08] get the veto by not upgrading their client, but hopefully that never happens
[00:56:14] basically. So I'm I'm curious then because the
[00:56:19] client is is also under the same organization as Ethereum Classic. It's
[00:56:26] all it's all under the same it's the same ECIPs like Corg is right there and
[00:56:31] I and I assume Corg is still the the leading client, right?
[00:56:37] Yeah, I believe that that's the most uh commonly used one,
[00:56:43] right? So uh I'm just asking because are would is the access different between repositories within the Ethereum classic
[00:56:51] uh organization or would the same people who have the ability to change ECIPs be
[00:56:58] able to uh you know kind of push something through into the core GE like is it more protected like what what's
[00:57:04] the deal there? Uh well it's it's kind of separated out.
[00:57:09] So the Ethereum Classic GitHub or is kind of like a community thing. In
[00:57:16] reality, Cody is the main admin of that. He has the ability to add and remove
[00:57:22] people from the various groups in there. So he's a he's a good kind of caretaker
[00:57:28] and has been fair about who gets to edit stuff and the whole process kind of relies on neutral administration.
[00:57:37] separate and this is for historical reasons I believe there's an ETLS core/core ge repo which is where the the
[00:57:46] code for the most popular client is and I'm not sure exactly who owns that repo
[00:57:53] but Diego is publishing to there and I think it's good that these are separated
[00:57:59] because it kind of creates checks and balances and same goes for the like the the domain
[00:58:06] name is owned by different people. Yeah. Who do you think like it shows who the contributors are to uh that repo, but I
[00:58:14] like how do people get access to that? I guess it I if I see I see it's through pull requests.
[00:58:20] Um but I I I assume that there's either a
[00:58:27] set of people that have been approved, but it's strange because GitHub doesn't tell you anything about these things. So
[00:58:33] that's that's that's for me a little bit of a transparency question that I would like to kind of see kind of changed over
[00:58:39] the next year or two for Ethereum Classic is to really see who has those
[00:58:44] uh those roles over the client uh especially since we're using something like GitHub which is sort of a central
[00:58:51] place because that that's where all the clients are maintained and where all the releases are pushed. So it it does have,
[00:58:59] you know, I understand that we do have like a rough consensus mechanism, but it would be the the path of lease
[00:59:05] resistance for someone who would want to push something through. If they had the right people, if they if they had the
[00:59:11] right uh approvers, they could theoretically get something to push to Corg. But I did not know that that the
[00:59:18] releases were made on a separate uh one from the one under Ethereum Classic. And that Ethereum Classic one is just a fork
[00:59:24] of the one under ETC Labs core. But yeah, I would love to know like who who's running that.
[00:59:31] Yeah. Um I believe I I don't think this is hidden information. You can probably
[00:59:38] I mean I'm pretty sure Bubmore would know the answer to those questions and I can ask
[00:59:45] him if you like. Um you're right that this it would be great if this was documented. He's not getting
[00:59:51] paid to answer those kind of questions anymore though, so good luck. Well, he's I mean the other thing is
[00:59:57] that these things can change over time and it's difficult to figure out, but the
[01:00:02] the the fact that they are open source projects is a massive like
[01:00:09] even if those repositories were compromised and pushed out malicious versions, it would not be like
[01:00:17] the a game over scenario because the community would just say, "Hey, like these have been taken over and they
[01:00:23] they're clearly malicious, so please don't use these. And here's the alternative fork uploaded to either a
[01:00:30] different repo on GitHub or even a completely different platform like GitLab. So there's there's not really
[01:00:37] that much incentive to take over these things. I mean, there's some advantage and it could be used maliciously in the
[01:00:43] short term, but it doesn't provide any like serious long-term threat to the
[01:00:49] protocol, I think, because they are easily replaceable.
[01:00:56] So with your personal experience, would you say that a chain takeover would be near to impossible
[01:01:03] with um but by by basically just having permissions that other people don't and
[01:01:10] not really like getting consensus from the community and just kind of trying to push it through? Like would you say that
[01:01:17] that's effectively impossible because the client has been replicated so many times that you know at the moment people
[01:01:24] start noticing that there's a change here and that it's screwing people's clients and they're going to an upgrade that people didn't approve that they're
[01:01:30] going to just use another fork of the client. Is that what you're saying? Exactly. And that's that's why the rough
[01:01:37] consensus part is really important. If there's if there's like a new version that comes out and miners, they're going
[01:01:45] to be checking whether they should upgrade or not. They they're going to check different news feeds and social
[01:01:50] media and if there's like significant like call outs against it, then they're going
[01:01:58] to then be more asking questions and like investigating what's going on here
[01:02:03] and who can I trust? And the default option most of the time is to do nothing. So in order to push a malicious
[01:02:10] change, then they really need everyone else to be quiet and not do anything about it. And even if like the apparent
[01:02:18] majority are on board, if a significant majority are against it, it's almost
[01:02:23] certainly going to create a chain split as you can see with Ethereal Classic. So the risk of a chain split is enough to
[01:02:30] prevent that kind of malicious acting because it destroys value for both sides.
[01:02:35] I think it's interesting the way you put it, but now that I think of it, the reason why people would the incentive
[01:02:41] for miners to change to upgrade their client is so that just in ca in the case
[01:02:47] that all the other clients have been upgraded and like the majority of clients have been upgraded and they are
[01:02:52] like the last one or 5% they will be basically on an uncle chain that no longer whether whatever earnings that
[01:02:59] they have will no longer actually uh you know reward them. Um
[01:03:05] so it kind of it kind of makes this uh this this effect where if people want to
[01:03:12] uh make changes to the chain then they have to have everybody on board or else
[01:03:18] uh anybody who installs that client will effectively be kind of punished for not
[01:03:23] being on board with with uh with everybody else. It's kind of it's not a direct slashing system, but it's more of
[01:03:29] like an indirect slashing similar to how uh Ethereum runs today. And I I don't
[01:03:34] know if that's by design or if that's, you know, by coincidence, but it does end up uh creating this effect where
[01:03:41] people are not going to want to install uh a client that has been that has been poorly marketed, that isn't something
[01:03:48] that everybody's talking about. Um, people would rather stay on the client until they know that everybody's moving
[01:03:54] to the other client and then when they know that everybody's moving to the other client, then they have a very good incentive to do so because if they
[01:04:01] don't, they lose out on their on their mining rewards. Is that correct or will they still rewards? you you hit the nail
[01:04:09] on the head and it's uh it really is this one of the topics I wanted to maybe
[01:04:15] introduce into this discussion was um uh about signaling and how like in in
[01:04:23] Bitcoin for example there's a there's this idea of a user activated soft fork or hard fork whereby if a certain number
[01:04:30] of people have upgraded then it gets activated but only if that certain threshold is reached and otherwise
[01:04:37] everyone one just defaults to the existing thing. So that's kind of similar to what you're talking about but
[01:04:42] in a more formalized way. So that might be another useful thing for such
[01:04:48] contentious potentially uh hard forks could be you know um
[01:04:57] figured out whether they're they're receiving enough support to implement.
[01:05:03] Well, I think it's just good to know that there's checks and balances to these things and it's it's a very very natural, as I said, I don't know if it's
[01:05:10] by design, but it it just it just ends up working out because of how uh you know, the client replication system
[01:05:17] works and how uh people will get punished if they don't uh upgrade their
[01:05:23] client and if the client is is not a a good upgrade, then there's then they will be slashed effectively for that.
[01:05:30] But uh I think how long do these calls usually go? I think we're probably getting to the longer end of these now.
[01:05:37] Yeah. Uh that is a good uh good call and I think we should wrap up. It's getting
[01:05:43] quite late. I'm in uh I'm in uh Far East time zone so it's almost almost past my
[01:05:49] bedtime. So yeah, thank you for joining the call. It's been uh a lot better having
[01:05:56] participants. I originally started the call and it's just me on my own for 10 minutes. So, I'm glad that you uh that
[01:06:02] some people turned up for hosting, dude. It's patient. Yeah, of course. And uh
[01:06:10] yeah, let's let's do it again for now. Let's wrap things up and uh yeah, I'll
[01:06:16] um post this on YouTube. So, yeah, thanks everyone for listening and
[01:06:21] attending and we'll see you at the next Asser Classic community course. Thanks. Bye-bye. Very
[01:06:38] good.
