---
number: 40
description: ETC Community Call 040 — Community Pulse Check
date: 2025-04-25
time: 1500 UTC
location: ETC Discord / Twitter Spaces
youtube: 2HG5t_dyd5A
joinLink: https://ethereumclassic.org/discord
hosts:
  - CodyBurns
---

## Context

This document is a raw archival record of a community discussion.

It is provided for historical reference only and does **not** represent
decisions, consensus, endorsements, or official positions of the
Ethereum Classic network.

Attendance was voluntary and limited. Statements reflect individual
participant opinions expressed during the call.

The presence or absence of agreement during the call does **not**
imply network-level consensus or dispute.

Due to technical issues with Discord audio, the discussion migrated
mid-call to Twitter Spaces.

Readers are encouraged to consult the recording directly.

---

## Topics Listed at Start of Call

- Informal community check-in
- High-level discussion of Ethereum Classic’s current state
- Core infrastructure and client development considerations
- Funding, sustainability, and maintenance concerns
- General discussion of long-term direction and community engagement

---

## Call 040 — Transcript (Cleaned)

> **Note:** This transcript preserves the original content and timestamps. Obvious transcription errors, broken words, and punctuation have been corrected, and line breaks normalized for readability. No content has been added, removed, or paraphrased.

---

00:00:34
Also, we're streaming now then. Uh, sure. Hello everyone. Thanks for taking the time to join today. This is This call is meant to be inable. Was that the start noise? Anyway, this call is meant to be informal. It's We haven't had one of these in a while. It's a chance to catch up, talk about where etc stands, talk about the ideas we've been thinking about or we've been kicking around in the channels and in email threads. So this is kind of bring everyone together so we can

00:01:17
discuss big picture is etc still here to stay if we want it to not just survive and be a coin that's kind of moving sideways for the last couple years and we keep coming to the chat rooms and just so we can troll each other. I mean, it's if it's going to survive, it's going to be because people that like this that show up to meetings, stay engaged, help shape the future. So, these are people in this call are the ones that uh I guess we need to talk to. So, I mean, there's big things that we need to talk

00:01:54
about as a group, as Ethereum Classic, like core infrastructure, how we want to manage GT or what long-term view is on that if we want to keep chasing the latest updates of Ethereum or whether it's um we do other engineering on our own or how we decide on which forks happen. It's uh there's not a clear path right now or clear clear process on that. So coming together around that, how we make those decisions, funding and grants, how we engage with uh people who are wanting to build on the network, how we can have

00:02:30
sustainable funding for all the things that aren't the sexy parts of cryptocurrency like running block explorers or uh keeping communication channels open, uh running test nets, things like that. um Ethereum Classic I guess in general as a cryptocurrency how we want to talk about it uh as a group still is the world shifted today from where it was even a year ago on uh standards around cryptocurrency. we're getting a lot more uh legal clarity around what rules will be in place around crypto and things involved

00:03:16
in it. So defining what Ethereum Classic means in a world where there's thousands of L2s now there's uh tons of alternatives and block space is mostly unlimited. How do we get people to realize the real value of etc? The philosophical thing that keeps us all tethered to come to these chat rooms and the community. There's only what seven of us here of a top 20 cryptocurrency. That's I mean the community is probably the most important for this whole thing to work. We need to bring people in, the people that are

00:04:01
here, engaged with them. We got to figure out how to get everyone doing something productive. Uh I mean, you're if you're here today, you're already part of the story of what's current with etc., what's the latest voice? What's the who's driving the changes in it? This it's this group. This is the people who have come together. We want more builders. We want more node runners. We want more people testing and translating and spreading word. But there's there's no central company or no

00:04:31
foundation that's going to be able to step in and run everything and just give Athereum Classic everything it needs. It's ours. It's so what we do next depends on all of us here in this call. So uh thank you for coming everyone. Uh and yeah, let's uh let's start the conversation I guess. Um, I don't have a a plan of how to tackle each of these or or how to discuss them. Uh, so feel free to come up to you, chime in. Um, I guess if no one else has any topics they want to discuss, we can just run through

00:05:15
the ones I just hit. Yeah, I think if you want to maybe Cody talk about uh what we need on core uh core GU moving forward. Um I think that's probably a good start. Uh just in the sense that it's such critical software. Um generally the public doesn't really know where that stands after recent announcements of funding and things like that. Um, in fact, we don't even know who's working on it. We don't know if there's anyone staffed to work on it, uh, my understanding is that uh, the two

00:05:54
developers that actually were, uh, able to work on it, uh, have left ETC co-op. So, um, and then I know that there's another developer there, Diego, but my understanding was that Diego was a Bezu developer. So, I don't know what he's been doing since uh Bezo has been dep deprecated for Ethereum Classic for I mean I I thought it was like 2023. Um I I forget the date, but um but if you could just fill us in maybe in what's going on with that. Definitely the last call we had was a community call on this

00:06:30
stream and it was essentially uh etc co-op uh stating that they were running out of money. So, um, that's kind of where the conversation has left in this series of calls. So, I hope that's helpful. That's helpful. Uh, yeah. And right now, Diego's the uh core developer that's still with the co-op. So, he's still here. He's still doing patches as they come in from upstream. Uh, Basu still connects to Ethereum Classic. Uh, it's just not the preferred client. So, it it does exist. It it

00:07:13
works. It's there. Uh, and Diego's work there is probably one of the things that will help us. Um cuz while we were doing whatever we were doing in ETC land, the rest of Ethereum moved on from the monolithic client standpoint of they have one node that does everything. They've moved to a modular architecture. Around the time of the merge, they split out all the consensus logic from the execution clients. So, GE got its uh or GE can run with any of the consensus clients. It's a separate node. Bas can run with any of

00:07:53
the consensus clients because the execution is separate from consensus. But with ETC, we're still have a everything's all in one box. Our multiget has our mining, it has uh the execution, everything's all packaged in one. So we're always kind of tied to whatever changes are coming through from upstream on it. I mean I guess longterm the ideal would be to have something similar to the proof ofstake validator nodes for proof of work have a separate uh consensus node that manages etc's custom logic that isn't from

00:08:32
upstream. So our handling of the bomb, handling how we do difficulty adjustment, uh the happening or piffning onchain, all of that would be in a consensus node and then all the changes from upstream Ethereum to the EVM would just be directs to whatever execution clients running. So we could use this consensus client with any execution client. It wouldn't just be tied to G or BU. It would be um any of them would be available to us. Hey, can I just jump in here? Hi guys. Um, I just want to let everyone know

00:09:05
that Diego uh since the other devs joined at the beginning of 2023, he's been working with them uh with Corg. So, he has he may not have as much experience as they had, but he is able to do what's necessary with Corg as well. So don't be concerned that he's just been there on his own doing stuff with Beu and doesn't have the ability um to do what's necessary now because he does. So he's had, you know, two years of experience working with those guys. They were working as um a really tight

00:09:37
team. So uh he was able to pick up all that knowledge over the last couple years. Cool. That's very helpful. Thanks. Um, yeah. And so that's uh that's I guess the where we're at on development. I mean, so to so to touch on what you were just talking about, Cody, um do uh is Diego competent to do that development work? Is that what he's tasked with doing now or um is that something that we will need to staff for? And you know, and it sounds like a pretty deep plan to split those apart. Um, has another team

00:10:23
already done this for proof of work? Uh, you mentioned that it's it's happened for proof of stake, but has that been done by any different network that uses Gath? Uh, so so we maybe have some audits or source source code to work with? Um, do you know any of that stuff by chance or is it still too early? if someone's talking. I can't hear anyone talking. This is some of the old issues we had with Discord. So, I'm going to re I can't hear either. So, Cody, try to uh try to rejoin. This has

00:11:20
happened in the past where this is why we were kind of moving to Twitter spaces for these type of things. Yeah. Maybe go on your I have to go on my phone. Maybe go on your phone if you're on your laptop. Yeah, we can hear you now. I guess I dropped out. Sorry. Where did Where did I leave off at? You dropped out before you started talking. Like right as I was finishing talking. Oh man, that's crazy. So y'all have just been listening to silence for the last Okay, honey. Uh yeah. So I guess was Allison audible.

00:12:52
Yeah. Allison and I were talking. Um but but I think Okay, cool. Yeah. So uh what I had said I guess out of the whole thing. Sorry. We could hear you up until uh I was asking you. I was doing a follow-up and I had just asked you uh if you had done the research on it like do we need to staff up for it? Any of those things? Did you hear that part? No, I didn't hear that part. I think got dropped. Okay. So, I had we heard you uh kind of explain the the uh core guest stuff and splitting the proof of work out and

00:13:29
everything. Um is Diego capable of doing that? Uh is do we need to find staff for that? Um, is there already source code? Has another team already built the uh split out the core gath for proof of work? Um, or is it just too early in the research? What kind of what's what's the situation with everything you just talked about? I would say probably too early in the research right now. Uh, I don't think we would do this on his own. I mean, he'd be a great candidate for coordinating

00:14:06
teams. Whenever Ethereum mainet did this, it took a effort of several teams building this out uh over months to get it put together. It's u it's not a small effort, I guess, is the I don't want to trivialize it and say we can just copy and paste some code. This would be actual engineering work that would have to be get done. We'd have to define how the protocol works together. make sure we're matching up with the API spec that they have for the consensus nodes on mainet for um for their proof of state. So, we'd

00:14:44
have to use the same interface. We'd have to um figure out I'm sure there's a ton of trip wires along the way. So the short answer is it's it's a decision we have to make as a community that we have to commit to and figure out the work that needs to be done and start going down that path. It's not a a quick way or something we can just throw over the fence and hope that one or two developers pick it up and run with it. Yeah. And so from my understanding, it sounds like this is going to be a

00:15:22
necessity as we continue to maintain uh protocol parody with the EVM standard, right? Um as it's just going to keep getting worse if we don't make this this change to the client. Yeah, it's we're on a limited timeline with how long we can use the current Ethereum clients. They've all moved to proof of stake or mainet's proof of stake now. So anyone who's building a client for Ethereum is just building an execution client or they're just building a consensus client. It's

00:15:54
there's G itself has started to chop all the code out for proof of work. Uh Basu did the same. So it's if we don't commit to figuring how to make this work, then we're going to have to fully maintain our own code in the future going forward, which is an option. Uh just keep the lights on, keep doing what we're doing, evaluate forks as they come, and hope there's no breaking changes. Um but that's I guess that's what we kind of need to decide as a group. Is this something worth engaging on or is this

00:16:36
are there other things that are a higher priority right now in the overall development pipeline? And is uh GU the desired client to continue with or is this a moment where um there might be another client out there that you know has more features or is more performative uh that it would make sense to maybe uh perform this work on instead of the guest stack? How do what what's your view on that? Or is guest still the upstream of choice? It would be more of a choice of which uh execution client you want to use. Right

00:17:20
now we're tied together because that's where everything is. All right. Uh does anyone else have any questions about this? Anyone Anyone else in the chat? Um does does the potential beforeation of the node into an execution client and and into a consensus client mean that there's going to be a layer 1 and layer two within the network or some analogy of that. For example, where will there be nodes and miners running only the consensus client and other people in the world running only the execution client and

00:18:31
they have to connect over the internet to to integrate information and things like that? Cody, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Cody, I don't think we can hear you again. Dang. Here, I think something I can do. We can we can fire up uh Twitter spaces real quick and probably share a link and get a recording going there and then LOL can can participate as well. I think that's something maybe. Yeah, I think so. This obviously is not working. Were you able to hear the freeird? Did that answer your question? We're not

00:19:53
hearing you. Um I think I think Freeird said he's going to just start a Twitter spaces and then also Lal can take part because this is not working well. Okay. So, we go to general and we we we we wait for the link there. Yeah, sounds good. Pretty good.
